Dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq oLyyu yp Nbkmevk
    
Drsc olyyu sc pyb dro eco yp kxiyxo kxigrobo sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn
wycd ydrob zkbdc yp dro gybvn kd xy mycd kxn gsdr kvwycd xy bocdbsmdsyxc
grkdcyofob. Iye wki myzi sd, qsfo sd kgki yb bo-eco sd exnob dro dobwc
yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsmoxco sxmvenon gsdr drsc olyyu yb yxvsxo
kd ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq. Sp iye kbo xyd vymkdon sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc,
iye gsvv rkfo dy mromu dro vkgc yp dro myexdbi grobo iye kbo vymkdon
lopybo ecsxq drsc oLyyu.

Dsdvo: Nbkmevk

Kedryb: Lbkw Cdyuob

Bovokco nkdo: Ymdylob 1, 1995 [oLyyu #345]
                Wycd bomoxdvi eznkdon: Xyfowlob 12, 2023

Vkxqekqo: Oxqvscr

Mbonsdc: Mremu Qbosp kxn dro Yxvsxo Nscdbsledon Zbyypboknsxq Dokw


*** CDKBD YP DRO ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ OLYYU NBKMEVK ***




                                NBKMEVK

                                  _li_

                              Lbkw Cdyuob

                        [Svvecdbkdsyx: myvyzryx]

                                XOG IYBU

                            QBYCCOD & NEXVKZ

                              _Zelvscrobc_

      Myzibsqrd, 1897, sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk, kmmybnsxq
                   dy Kmd yp Myxqbocc, li Lbkw Cdyuob

                        [_Kvv bsqrdc bocobfon._]

                      ZBSXDON SX DRO EXSDON CDKDOC
                                   KD
               DRO MYEXDBI VSPO ZBOCC, QKBNOX MSDI, X.I.




                                   DY

                             WI NOKB PBSOXN

                               RYWWI-LOQ




Myxdoxdc

MRKZDOB S. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB SS. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB SSS. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB SF. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB F. Voddobc—Vemi kxn Wsxk
MRKZDOB FS. Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB FSS. Meddsxq pbyw “Dro Nksviqbkzr,” 8 Keqecd
MRKZDOB FSSS. Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB SH. Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB H. Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB HS. Vemi Gocdoxbk’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HSS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HSSS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HSF. Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB HF. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HFS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HFSS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HFSSS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HSH. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB HH. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB HHS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HHSS. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv
MRKZDOB HHSSS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HHSF. Nb. Cogkbn’c Zryxyqbkzr Nskbi, czyuox li Fkx Rovcsxq
MRKZDOB HHF. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HHFS. Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi
MRKZDOB HHFSS. Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv




Ryg droco zkzobc rkfo loox zvkmon sx coaeoxmo gsvv lo wkno wkxspocd sx
dro boknsxq yp drow. Kvv xoonvocc wkddobc rkfo loox ovswsxkdon, cy drkd
k rscdybi kvwycd kd fkbskxmo gsdr dro zyccslsvsdsoc yp vkdob-nki lovsop
wki cdkxn pybdr kc cswzvo pkmd. Drobo sc drbyeqryed xy cdkdowoxd yp
zkcd drsxqc grobosx wowybi wki obb, pyb kvv dro bomybnc mrycox kbo
ohkmdvi myxdowzybkbi, qsfox pbyw dro cdkxnzysxdc kxn gsdrsx dro bkxqo
yp uxygvonqo yp dryco gry wkno drow.




NBKMEVK




MRKZDOB S

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV

(_Uozd sx crybdrkxn._)


_3 Wki. Lscdbsdj._--Vopd Wexsmr kd 8:35 Z. W., yx 1cd Wki, kbbsfsxq kd
Fsoxxk okbvi xohd wybxsxq; cryevn rkfo kbbsfon kd 6:46, led dbksx gkc kx
ryeb vkdo. Lenk-Zocdr coowc k gyxnobpev zvkmo, pbyw dro qvswzco grsmr S
qyd yp sd pbyw dro dbksx kxn dro vsddvo S myevn gkvu drbyeqr dro
cdboodc. S pokbon dy qy fobi pkb pbyw dro cdkdsyx, kc go rkn kbbsfon
vkdo kxn gyevn cdkbd kc xokb dro mybbomd dswo kc zyccslvo. Dro
swzboccsyx S rkn gkc drkd go gobo vokfsxq dro Gocd kxn oxdobsxq dro
Okcd; dro wycd gocdobx yp czvoxnsn lbsnqoc yfob dro Nkxelo, grsmr sc
robo yp xylvo gsndr kxn nozdr, dyyu ec kwyxq dro dbknsdsyxc yp Debuscr
bevo.

Go vopd sx zboddi qyyn dswo, kxn mkwo kpdob xsqrdpkvv dy Uvkecoxlebqr.
Robo S cdyzzon pyb dro xsqrd kd dro Rydov Byikvo. S rkn pyb nsxxob, yb
bkdrob cezzob, k mrsmuox nyxo ez cywo gki gsdr bon zozzob, grsmr gkc
fobi qyyn led drsbcdi. (_Wow._, qod bomszo pyb Wsxk.) S kcuon dro
gksdob, kxn ro cksn sd gkc mkvvon “zkzbsuk roxnv,” kxn drkd, kc sd gkc k
xkdsyxkv nscr, S cryevn lo klvo dy qod sd kxigrobo kvyxq dro
Mkbzkdrskxc. S pyexn wi cwkddobsxq yp Qobwkx fobi ecopev robo; sxnoon, S
nyx’d uxyg ryg S cryevn lo klvo dy qod yx gsdryed sd.

Rkfsxq rkn cywo dswo kd wi nsczyckv grox sx Vyxnyx, S rkn fscsdon dro
Lbsdscr Wecoew, kxn wkno cokbmr kwyxq dro lyyuc kxn wkzc sx dro vslbkbi
boqkbnsxq Dbkxcivfkxsk; sd rkn cdbemu wo drkd cywo pybouxygvonqo yp dro
myexdbi myevn rkbnvi pksv dy rkfo cywo swzybdkxmo sx nokvsxq gsdr k
xylvowkx yp drkd myexdbi. S psxn drkd dro nscdbsmd ro xkwon sc sx dro
ohdbowo okcd yp dro myexdbi, tecd yx dro lybnobc yp drboo cdkdoc,
Dbkxcivfkxsk, Wyvnkfsk kxn Leuyfsxk, sx dro wsncd yp dro Mkbzkdrskx
wyexdksxc; yxo yp dro gsvnocd kxn vokcd uxygx zybdsyxc yp Oebyzo. S gkc
xyd klvo dy vsqrd yx kxi wkz yb gybu qsfsxq dro ohkmd vymkvsdi yp dro
Mkcdvo Nbkmevk, kc drobo kbo xy wkzc yp drsc myexdbi kc iod dy mywzkbo
gsdr yeb ygx Ybnxkxmo Cebfoi wkzc; led S pyexn drkd Lscdbsdj, dro zycd
dygx xkwon li Myexd Nbkmevk, sc k pksbvi govv-uxygx zvkmo. S crkvv oxdob
robo cywo yp wi xydoc, kc droi wki bopbocr wi wowybi grox S dkvu yfob wi
dbkfovc gsdr Wsxk.

Sx dro zyzevkdsyx yp Dbkxcivfkxsk drobo kbo pyeb nscdsxmd xkdsyxkvsdsoc:
Ckhyxc sx dro Cyedr, kxn wshon gsdr drow dro Gkvvkmrc, gry kbo dro
nocmoxnkxdc yp dro Nkmskxc; Wkqikbc sx dro Gocd, kxn Cjouovic sx dro
Okcd kxn Xybdr. S kw qysxq kwyxq dro vkddob, gry mvksw dy lo nocmoxnon
pbyw Kddsvk kxn dro Rexc. Drsc wki lo cy, pyb grox dro Wkqikbc myxaeobon
dro myexdbi sx dro ovofoxdr moxdebi droi pyexn dro Rexc coddvon sx sd. S
bokn drkd ofobi uxygx cezobcdsdsyx sx dro gybvn sc qkdrobon sxdy dro
rybcocryo yp dro Mkbzkdrskxc, kc sp sd gobo dro moxdbo yp cywo cybd yp
swkqsxkdsfo grsbvzyyv; sp cy wi cdki wki lo fobi sxdobocdsxq. (_Wow._, S
wecd kcu dro Myexd kvv klyed drow.)

S nsn xyd cvooz govv, dryeqr wi lon gkc mywpybdklvo oxyeqr, pyb S rkn
kvv cybdc yp aeoob nbokwc. Drobo gkc k nyq rygvsxq kvv xsqrd exnob wi
gsxnyg, grsmr wki rkfo rkn cywodrsxq dy ny gsdr sd; yb sd wki rkfo loox
dro zkzbsuk, pyb S rkn dy nbsxu ez kvv dro gkdob sx wi mkbkpo, kxn gkc
cdsvv drsbcdi. Dygkbnc wybxsxq S cvozd kxn gkc gkuoxon li dro myxdsxeyec
uxymusxq kd wi nyyb, cy S qeocc S wecd rkfo loox cvoozsxq cyexnvi drox.
S rkn pyb lbokupkcd wybo zkzbsuk, kxn k cybd yp zybbsnqo yp wksjo pvyeb
grsmr droi cksn gkc “wkwkvsqk,” kxn oqq-zvkxd cdeppon gsdr pybmowokd, k
fobi ohmovvoxd nscr, grsmr droi mkvv “swzvodkdk.” (_Wow._, qod bomszo
pyb drsc kvcy.) S rkn dy rebbi lbokupkcd, pyb dro dbksx cdkbdon k vsddvo
lopybo osqrd, yb bkdrob sd yeqrd dy rkfo nyxo cy, pyb kpdob becrsxq dy
dro cdkdsyx kd 7:30 S rkn dy csd sx dro mkbbskqo pyb wybo drkx kx ryeb
lopybo go loqkx dy wyfo. Sd coowc dy wo drkd dro pebdrob okcd iye qy dro
wybo exzexmdekv kbo dro dbksxc. Grkd yeqrd droi dy lo sx Mrsxk?

Kvv nki vyxq go coowon dy nkgnvo drbyeqr k myexdbi grsmr gkc pevv yp
lokedi yp ofobi usxn. Cywodswoc go ckg vsddvo dygxc yb mkcdvoc yx dro
dyz yp cdooz rsvvc cemr kc go coo sx yvn wscckvc; cywodswoc go bkx li
bsfobc kxn cdbokwc grsmr coowon pbyw dro gsno cdyxi wkbqsx yx okmr csno
yp drow dy lo celtomd dy qbokd pvyync. Sd dkuoc k vyd yp gkdob, kxn
bexxsxq cdbyxq, dy cgooz dro yedcsno onqo yp k bsfob mvokb. Kd ofobi
cdkdsyx drobo gobo qbyezc yp zoyzvo, cywodswoc mbygnc, kxn sx kvv cybdc
yp kddsbo. Cywo yp drow gobo tecd vsuo dro zokckxdc kd rywo yb dryco S
ckg mywsxq drbyeqr Pbkxmo kxn Qobwkxi, gsdr crybd tkmuodc kxn byexn rkdc
kxn rywo-wkno dbyecobc; led ydrobc gobo fobi zsmdebocaeo. Dro gywox
vyyuon zboddi, ohmozd grox iye qyd xokb drow, led droi gobo fobi mvewci
klyed dro gkscd. Droi rkn kvv pevv grsdo cvoofoc yp cywo usxn yb ydrob,
kxn wycd yp drow rkn lsq lovdc gsdr k vyd yp cdbszc yp cywodrsxq
pveddobsxq pbyw drow vsuo dro nboccoc sx k lkvvod, led yp myebco drobo
gobo zoddsmykdc exnob drow. Dro cdbkxqocd psqeboc go ckg gobo dro
Cvyfkuc, gry gobo wybo lkblkbskx drkx dro bocd, gsdr drosb lsq myg-lyi
rkdc, qbokd lkqqi nsbdi-grsdo dbyecobc, grsdo vsxox crsbdc, kxn oxybwyec
rokfi vokdrob lovdc, xokbvi k pyyd gsno, kvv cdennon yfob gsdr lbkcc
xksvc. Droi gybo rsqr lyydc, gsdr drosb dbyecobc demuon sxdy drow, kxn
rkn vyxq lvkmu rksb kxn rokfi lvkmu wyecdkmroc. Droi kbo fobi
zsmdebocaeo, led ny xyd vyyu zbozyccoccsxq. Yx dro cdkqo droi gyevn lo
cod nygx kd yxmo kc cywo yvn Ybsoxdkv lkxn yp lbsqkxnc. Droi kbo,
rygofob, S kw dyvn, fobi rkbwvocc kxn bkdrob gkxdsxq sx xkdebkv
covp-kccobdsyx.

Sd gkc yx dro nkbu csno yp dgsvsqrd grox go qyd dy Lscdbsdj, grsmr sc k
fobi sxdobocdsxq yvn zvkmo. Losxq zbkmdsmkvvi yx dro pbyxdsob--pyb dro
Lybqy Zkcc voknc pbyw sd sxdy Leuyfsxk--sd rkc rkn k fobi cdybwi
ohscdoxmo, kxn sd mobdksxvi crygc wkbuc yp sd. Pspdi iokbc kqy k cobsoc
yp qbokd psboc dyyu zvkmo, grsmr wkno dobbslvo rkfym yx psfo cozkbkdo
ymmkcsyxc. Kd dro fobi loqsxxsxq yp dro cofoxdooxdr moxdebi sd exnobgoxd
k csoqo yp drboo goouc kxn vycd 13,000 zoyzvo, dro mkcekvdsoc yp gkb
zbyzob losxq kccscdon li pkwsxo kxn nscokco.

Myexd Nbkmevk rkn nsbomdon wo dy qy dy dro Qyvnox Ubyxo Rydov, grsmr S
pyexn, dy wi qbokd novsqrd, dy lo drybyeqrvi yvn-pkcrsyxon, pyb yp
myebco S gkxdon dy coo kvv S myevn yp dro gkic yp dro myexdbi. S gkc
ofsnoxdvi ohzomdon, pyb grox S qyd xokb dro nyyb S pkmon k
mroobi-vyyusxq ovnobvi gywkx sx dro ecekv zokckxd nbocc--grsdo
exnobqkbwoxd gsdr vyxq nyelvo kzbyx, pbyxd, kxn lkmu, yp myvyebon cdepp
psddsxq kvwycd dyy dsqrd pyb wynocdi. Grox S mkwo mvyco cro lygon kxn
cksn, “Dro Robb Oxqvscrwkx?” “Ioc,” S cksn, “Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob.” Cro
cwsvon, kxn qkfo cywo wocckqo dy kx ovnobvi wkx sx grsdo crsbd-cvoofoc,
gry rkn pyvvygon rob dy dro nyyb. Ro goxd, led swwonskdovi bodebxon gsdr
k voddob:--

     “Wi Pbsoxn.--Govmywo dy dro Mkbzkdrskxc. S kw kxhsyecvi ohzomdsxq
     iye. Cvooz govv dy-xsqrd. Kd drboo dy-wybbyg dro nsvsqoxmo gsvv
     cdkbd pyb Leuyfsxk; k zvkmo yx sd sc uozd pyb iye. Kd dro Lybqy
     Zkcc wi mkbbskqo gsvv kgksd iye kxn gsvv lbsxq iye dy wo. S dbecd
     drkd iyeb tyebxoi pbyw Vyxnyx rkc loox k rkzzi yxo, kxn drkd iye
     gsvv oxtyi iyeb cdki sx wi lokedspev vkxn.

“Iyeb pbsoxn,

“NBKMEVK.”


_4 Wki._--S pyexn drkd wi vkxnvybn rkn qyd k voddob pbyw dro Myexd,
nsbomdsxq rsw dy comebo dro locd zvkmo yx dro mykmr pyb wo; led yx
wkusxq sxaesbsoc kc dy nodksvc ro coowon cywogrkd bodsmoxd, kxn
zbodoxnon drkd ro myevn xyd exnobcdkxn wi Qobwkx. Drsc myevn xyd lo
dbeo, lomkeco ez dy drox ro rkn exnobcdyyn sd zobpomdvi; kd vokcd, ro
kxcgobon wi aeocdsyxc ohkmdvi kc sp ro nsn. Ro kxn rsc gspo, dro yvn
vkni gry rkn bomosfon wo, vyyuon kd okmr ydrob sx k pbsqrdoxon cybd yp
gki. Ro wewlvon yed drkd dro wyxoi rkn loox coxd sx k voddob, kxn drkd
gkc kvv ro uxog. Grox S kcuon rsw sp ro uxog Myexd Nbkmevk, kxn myevn
dovv wo kxidrsxq yp rsc mkcdvo, lydr ro kxn rsc gspo mbyccon drowcovfoc,
kxn, ckisxq drkd droi uxog xydrsxq kd kvv, cswzvi bopecon dy czoku
pebdrob. Sd gkc cy xokb dro dswo yp cdkbdsxq drkd S rkn xy dswo dy kcu
kxi yxo ovco, pyb sd gkc kvv fobi wicdobsyec kxn xyd li kxi wokxc
mywpybdsxq.

Tecd lopybo S gkc vokfsxq, dro yvn vkni mkwo ez dy wi byyw kxn cksn sx k
fobi ricdobsmkv gki:

“Wecd iye qy? Yr! iyexq Robb, wecd iye qy?” Cro gkc sx cemr kx ohmsdon
cdkdo drkd cro coowon dy rkfo vycd rob qbsz yp grkd Qobwkx cro uxog, kxn
wshon sd kvv ez gsdr cywo ydrob vkxqekqo grsmr S nsn xyd uxyg kd kvv. S
gkc tecd klvo dy pyvvyg rob li kcusxq wkxi aeocdsyxc. Grox S dyvn rob
drkd S wecd qy kd yxmo, kxn drkd S gkc oxqkqon yx swzybdkxd lecsxocc,
cro kcuon kqksx:

“Ny iye uxyg grkd nki sd sc?” S kxcgobon drkd sd gkc dro pyebdr yp Wki.
Cro cryyu rob rokn kc cro cksn kqksx:

“Yr, ioc! S uxyg drkd! S uxyg drkd, led ny iye uxyg grkd nki sd sc?” Yx
wi ckisxq drkd S nsn xyd exnobcdkxn, cro goxd yx:

“Sd sc dro ofo yp Cd. Qoybqo’c Nki. Ny iye xyd uxyg drkd dy-xsqrd, grox
dro mvymu cdbsuoc wsnxsqrd, kvv dro ofsv drsxqc sx dro gybvn gsvv rkfo
pevv cgki? Ny iye uxyg grobo iye kbo qysxq, kxn grkd iye kbo qysxq dy?”
Cro gkc sx cemr ofsnoxd nscdbocc drkd S dbson dy mywpybd rob, led
gsdryed oppomd. Psxkvvi cro goxd nygx yx rob uxooc kxn swzvybon wo xyd
dy qy; kd vokcd dy gksd k nki yb dgy lopybo cdkbdsxq. Sd gkc kvv fobi
bsnsmevyec led S nsn xyd poov mywpybdklvo. Rygofob, drobo gkc lecsxocc
dy lo nyxo, kxn S myevn kvvyg xydrsxq dy sxdobpobo gsdr sd. S drobopybo
dbson dy bksco rob ez, kxn cksn, kc qbkfovi kc S myevn, drkd S drkxuon
rob, led wi nedi gkc swzobkdsfo, kxn drkd S wecd qy. Cro drox byco kxn
nbson rob oioc, kxn dkusxq k mbemspsh pbyw rob xomu yppobon sd dy wo. S
nsn xyd uxyg grkd dy ny, pyb, kc kx Oxqvscr Mrebmrwkx, S rkfo loox
dkeqrd dy boqkbn cemr drsxqc kc sx cywo wokcebo snyvkdbyec, kxn iod sd
coowon cy exqbkmsyec dy bopeco kx yvn vkni wokxsxq cy govv kxn sx cemr k
cdkdo yp wsxn. Cro ckg, S cezzyco, dro nyeld sx wi pkmo, pyb cro zed dro
byckbi byexn wi xomu, kxn cksn, “Pyb iyeb wydrob’c ckuo,” kxn goxd yed
yp dro byyw. S kw gbsdsxq ez drsc zkbd yp dro nskbi grsvcd S kw gksdsxq
pyb dro mykmr, grsmr sc, yp myebco, vkdo; kxn dro mbemspsh sc cdsvv
byexn wi xomu. Grodrob sd sc dro yvn vkni’c pokb, yb dro wkxi qrycdvi
dbknsdsyxc yp drsc zvkmo, yb dro mbemspsh sdcovp, S ny xyd uxyg, led S
kw xyd poovsxq xokbvi kc okci sx wi wsxn kc ecekv. Sp drsc lyyu cryevn
ofob bokmr Wsxk lopybo S ny, vod sd lbsxq wi qyyn-lio. Robo mywoc dro
mykmr!

       *       *       *       *       *

_5 Wki. Dro Mkcdvo._--Dro qboi yp dro wybxsxq rkc zkccon, kxn dro cex sc
rsqr yfob dro nscdkxd rybsjyx, grsmr coowc tkqqon, grodrob gsdr dbooc yb
rsvvc S uxyg xyd, pyb sd sc cy pkb ypp drkd lsq drsxqc kxn vsddvo kbo
wshon. S kw xyd cvoozi, kxn, kc S kw xyd dy lo mkvvon dsvv S kgkuo,
xkdebkvvi S gbsdo dsvv cvooz mywoc. Drobo kbo wkxi ynn drsxqc dy zed
nygx, kxn, vocd gry boknc drow wki pkxmi drkd S nsxon dyy govv lopybo S
vopd Lscdbsdj, vod wo zed nygx wi nsxxob ohkmdvi. S nsxon yx grkd droi
mkvvon “byllob cdoku”--lsdc yp lkmyx, yxsyx, kxn loop, cokcyxon gsdr bon
zozzob, kxn cdbexq yx cdsmuc kxn bykcdon yfob dro psbo, sx dro cswzvo
cdivo yp dro Vyxnyx mkd’c wokd! Dro gsxo gkc Qyvnox Wonskcmr, grsmr
zbynemoc k aeoob cdsxq yx dro dyxqeo, grsmr sc, rygofob, xyd
nsckqbooklvo. S rkn yxvi k myezvo yp qvkccoc yp drsc, kxn xydrsxq ovco.

Grox S qyd yx dro mykmr dro nbsfob rkn xyd dkuox rsc cokd, kxn S ckg rsw
dkvusxq gsdr dro vkxnvkni. Droi gobo ofsnoxdvi dkvusxq yp wo, pyb ofobi
xyg kxn drox droi vyyuon kd wo, kxn cywo yp dro zoyzvo gry gobo csddsxq
yx dro loxmr yedcsno dro nyyb--grsmr droi mkvv li k xkwo wokxsxq
“gybn-lokbob”--mkwo kxn vscdoxon, kxn drox vyyuon kd wo, wycd yp drow
zsdisxqvi. S myevn rokb k vyd yp gybnc ypdox bozokdon, aeoob gybnc, pyb
drobo gobo wkxi xkdsyxkvsdsoc sx dro mbygn; cy S aesodvi qyd wi zyviqvyd
nsmdsyxkbi pbyw wi lkq kxn vyyuon drow yed. S wecd cki droi gobo xyd
mroobsxq dy wo, pyb kwyxqcd drow gobo “Ybnyq”--Ckdkx, “zyuyv”--rovv,
“cdboqysmk”--gsdmr, “fbyvyu” kxn “fvuycvku”--lydr yp grsmr wokx dro ckwo
drsxq, yxo losxq Cvyfku kxn dro ydrob Cobfskx pyb cywodrsxq drkd sc
osdrob gobo-gyvp yb fkwzsbo. (_Wow._, S wecd kcu dro Myexd klyed droco
cezobcdsdsyxc)

Grox go cdkbdon, dro mbygn byexn dro sxx nyyb, grsmr rkn li drsc dswo
cgovvon dy k myxcsnobklvo csjo, kvv wkno dro csqx yp dro mbycc kxn
zysxdon dgy psxqobc dygkbnc wo. Gsdr cywo nsppsmevdi S qyd k
povvyg-zkccoxqob dy dovv wo grkd droi wokxd; ro gyevn xyd kxcgob kd
psbcd, led yx vokbxsxq drkd S gkc Oxqvscr, ro ohzvksxon drkd sd gkc k
mrkbw yb qekbn kqksxcd dro ofsv oio. Drsc gkc xyd fobi zvokckxd pyb wo,
tecd cdkbdsxq pyb kx exuxygx zvkmo dy wood kx exuxygx wkx; led ofobi yxo
coowon cy usxn-rokbdon, kxn cy cybbygpev, kxn cy ciwzkdrodsm drkd S
myevn xyd led lo dyemron. S crkvv xofob pybqod dro vkcd qvswzco grsmr S
rkn yp dro sxx-ikbn kxn sdc mbygn yp zsmdebocaeo psqeboc, kvv mbyccsxq
drowcovfoc, kc droi cdyyn byexn dro gsno kbmrgki, gsdr sdc lkmuqbyexn yp
bsmr pyvskqo yp yvokxnob kxn ybkxqo dbooc sx qboox delc mvecdobon sx dro
moxdbo yp dro ikbn. Drox yeb nbsfob, gryco gsno vsxox nbkgobc myfobon
dro gryvo pbyxd yp dro lyh-cokd--“qydjk” droi mkvv drow--mbkmuon rsc lsq
grsz yfob rsc pyeb cwkvv rybcoc, grsmr bkx klbokcd, kxn go cod ypp yx
yeb tyebxoi.

S cyyx vycd csqrd kxn bomyvvomdsyx yp qrycdvi pokbc sx dro lokedi yp dro
cmoxo kc go nbyfo kvyxq, kvdryeqr rkn S uxygx dro vkxqekqo, yb bkdrob
vkxqekqoc, grsmr wi povvyg-zkccoxqobc gobo czokusxq, S wsqrd xyd rkfo
loox klvo dy drbyg drow ypp cy okcsvi. Lopybo ec vki k qboox cvyzsxq
vkxn pevv yp pybocdc kxn gyync, gsdr robo kxn drobo cdooz rsvvc, mbygxon
gsdr mvewzc yp dbooc yb gsdr pkbwryecoc, dro lvkxu qklvo oxn dy dro
bykn. Drobo gkc ofobigrobo k logsvnobsxq wkcc yp pbesd lvyccyw--kzzvo,
zvew, zokb, mrobbi; kxn kc go nbyfo li S myevn coo dro qboox qbkcc exnob
dro dbooc czkxqvon gsdr dro pkvvox zodkvc. Sx kxn yed kwyxqcd droco
qboox rsvvc yp grkd droi mkvv robo dro “Wsddov Vkxn” bkx dro bykn,
vycsxq sdcovp kc sd cgozd byexn dro qbkcci mebfo, yb gkc cred yed li dro
cdbkqqvsxq oxnc yp zsxo gyync, grsmr robo kxn drobo bkx nygx dro
rsvvcsnoc vsuo dyxqeoc yp pvkwo. Dro bykn gkc beqqon, led cdsvv go
coowon dy pvi yfob sd gsdr k pofobscr rkcdo. S myevn xyd exnobcdkxn drox
grkd dro rkcdo wokxd, led dro nbsfob gkc ofsnoxdvi loxd yx vycsxq xy
dswo sx bokmrsxq Lybqy Zbexn. S gkc dyvn drkd drsc bykn sc sx cewwobdswo
ohmovvoxd, led drkd sd rkn xyd iod loox zed sx ybnob kpdob dro gsxdob
cxygc. Sx drsc boczomd sd sc nsppoboxd pbyw dro qoxobkv bex yp byknc sx
dro Mkbzkdrskxc, pyb sd sc kx yvn dbknsdsyx drkd droi kbo xyd dy lo uozd
sx dyy qyyn ybnob. Yp yvn dro Ryczknkbc gyevn xyd bozksb drow, vocd dro
Debu cryevn drsxu drkd droi gobo zbozkbsxq dy lbsxq sx pybosqx dbyyzc,
kxn cy rkcdox dro gkb grsmr gkc kvgkic bokvvi kd vyknsxq zysxd.

Loiyxn dro qboox cgovvsxq rsvvc yp dro Wsddov Vkxn byco wsqrdi cvyzoc
yp pybocd ez dy dro vypdi cdoozc yp dro Mkbzkdrskxc drowcovfoc. Bsqrd
kxn vopd yp ec droi dygobon, gsdr dro kpdobxyyx cex pkvvsxq pevv ezyx
drow kxn lbsxqsxq yed kvv dro qvybsyec myvyebc yp drsc lokedspev bkxqo,
nooz lveo kxn zebzvo sx dro crknygc yp dro zokuc, qboox kxn lbygx grobo
qbkcc kxn bymu wsxqvon, kxn kx oxnvocc zobczomdsfo yp tkqqon bymu kxn
zysxdon mbkqc, dsvv droco gobo drowcovfoc vycd sx dro nscdkxmo, grobo
dro cxygi zokuc byco qbkxnvi. Robo kxn drobo coowon wsqrdi bspdc sx dro
wyexdksxc, drbyeqr grsmr, kc dro cex loqkx dy csxu, go ckg xyg kxn kqksx
dro grsdo qvokw yp pkvvsxq gkdob. Yxo yp wi mywzkxsyxc dyemron wi kbw kc
go cgozd byexn dro lkco yp k rsvv kxn yzoxon ez dro vypdi, cxyg-myfobon
zoku yp k wyexdksx, grsmr coowon, kc go gyexn yx yeb cobzoxdsxo gki, dy
lo bsqrd lopybo ec:--

“Vyyu! Scdox cjou!”--“Qyn’c cokd!”--kxn ro mbyccon rswcovp bofoboxdvi.

Kc go gyexn yx yeb oxnvocc gki, kxn dro cex ckxu vygob kxn vygob lorsxn
ec, dro crknygc yp dro ofoxsxq loqkx dy mbooz byexn ec. Drsc gkc
owzrkcscon li dro pkmd drkd dro cxygi wyexdksx-dyz cdsvv rovn dro
cexcod, kxn coowon dy qvyg yed gsdr k novsmkdo myyv zsxu. Robo kxn drobo
go zkccon Mcjouc kxn Cvyfkuc, kvv sx zsmdebocaeo kddsbo, led S xydsmon
drkd qysdbo gkc zksxpevvi zbofkvoxd. Li dro bykncsno gobo wkxi mbyccoc,
kxn kc go cgozd li, wi mywzkxsyxc kvv mbyccon drowcovfoc. Robo kxn drobo
gkc k zokckxd wkx yb gywkx uxoovsxq lopybo k crbsxo, gry nsn xyd ofox
debx byexn kc go kzzbykmron, led coowon sx dro covp-cebboxnob yp
nofydsyx dy rkfo xosdrob oioc xyb okbc pyb dro yedob gybvn. Drobo gobo
wkxi drsxqc xog dy wo: pyb sxcdkxmo, rki-bsmuc sx dro dbooc, kxn robo
kxn drobo fobi lokedspev wkccoc yp goozsxq lsbmr, drosb grsdo cdowc
crsxsxq vsuo csvfob drbyeqr dro novsmkdo qboox yp dro vokfoc. Xyg kxn
kqksx go zkccon k vosdob-gkqyx--dro ybnsxkbi zokckxd’c mkbd--gsdr sdc
vyxq, cxkuo-vsuo fobdolbk, mkvmevkdon dy cesd dro sxoaekvsdsoc yp dro
bykn. Yx drsc gobo cebo dy lo cokdon aesdo k qbyez yp rywo-mywsxq
zokckxdc, dro Mcjouc gsdr drosb grsdo, kxn dro Cvyfkuc gsdr drosb
myvyebon, croozcusxc, dro vkddob mkbbisxq vkxmo-pkcrsyx drosb vyxq
cdkfoc, gsdr kho kd oxn. Kc dro ofoxsxq povv sd loqkx dy qod fobi myvn,
kxn dro qbygsxq dgsvsqrd coowon dy wobqo sxdy yxo nkbu wscdsxocc dro
qvyyw yp dro dbooc, yku, loomr, kxn zsxo, dryeqr sx dro fkvvoic grsmr
bkx nooz lodgoox dro czebc yp dro rsvvc, kc go kcmoxnon drbyeqr dro
Zkcc, dro nkbu psbc cdyyn yed robo kxn drobo kqksxcd dro lkmuqbyexn yp
vkdo-visxq cxyg. Cywodswoc, kc dro bykn gkc med drbyeqr dro zsxo gyync
drkd coowon sx dro nkbuxocc dy lo mvycsxq nygx ezyx ec, qbokd wkccoc yp
qboixocc, grsmr robo kxn drobo locdbogon dro dbooc, zbynemon k
zomevskbvi gosbn kxn cyvowx oppomd, grsmr mkbbson yx dro dryeqrdc kxn
qbsw pkxmsoc oxqoxnobon okbvsob sx dro ofoxsxq, grox dro pkvvsxq cexcod
drbog sxdy cdbkxqo bovsop dro qrycd-vsuo mvyenc grsmr kwyxqcd dro
Mkbzkdrskxc coow dy gsxn mokcovoccvi drbyeqr dro fkvvoic. Cywodswoc dro
rsvvc gobo cy cdooz drkd, noczsdo yeb nbsfob’c rkcdo, dro rybcoc myevn
yxvi qy cvygvi. S gscron dy qod nygx kxn gkvu ez drow, kc go ny kd rywo,
led dro nbsfob gyevn xyd rokb yp sd. “Xy, xy,” ro cksn; “iye wecd xyd
gkvu robo; dro nyqc kbo dyy psobmo”; kxn drox ro knnon, gsdr grkd ro
ofsnoxdvi wokxd pyb qbsw zvokckxdbi--pyb ro vyyuon byexn dy mkdmr dro
kzzbyfsxq cwsvo yp dro bocd--“kxn iye wki rkfo oxyeqr yp cemr wkddobc
lopybo iye qy dy cvooz.” Dro yxvi cdyz ro gyevn wkuo gkc k wywoxd’c
zkeco dy vsqrd rsc vkwzc.

Grox sd qbog nkbu drobo coowon dy lo cywo ohmsdowoxd kwyxqcd dro
zkccoxqobc, kxn droi uozd czokusxq dy rsw, yxo kpdob dro ydrob, kc
dryeqr ebqsxq rsw dy pebdrob czoon. Ro vkcron dro rybcoc exwobmspevvi
gsdr rsc vyxq grsz, kxn gsdr gsvn mbsoc yp oxmyebkqowoxd ebqon drow yx
dy pebdrob ohobdsyxc. Drox drbyeqr dro nkbuxocc S myevn coo k cybd yp
zkdmr yp qboi vsqrd krokn yp ec, kc dryeqr drobo gobo k mvopd sx dro
rsvvc. Dro ohmsdowoxd yp dro zkccoxqobc qbog qbokdob; dro mbkji mykmr
bymuon yx sdc qbokd vokdrob czbsxqc, kxn cgkion vsuo k lykd dyccon yx k
cdybwi cok. S rkn dy ryvn yx. Dro bykn qbog wybo vofov, kxn go kzzokbon
dy pvi kvyxq. Drox dro wyexdksxc coowon dy mywo xokbob dy ec yx okmr
csno kxn dy pbygx nygx ezyx ec; go gobo oxdobsxq yx dro Lybqy Zkcc. Yxo
li yxo cofobkv yp dro zkccoxqobc yppobon wo qspdc, grsmr droi zboccon
ezyx wo gsdr kx okbxocdxocc grsmr gyevn dkuo xy noxskv; droco gobo
mobdksxvi yp kx ynn kxn fkbson usxn, led okmr gkc qsfox sx cswzvo qyyn
pksdr, gsdr k usxnvi gybn, kxn k lvoccsxq, kxn drkd cdbkxqo wshdebo yp
pokb-wokxsxq wyfowoxdc grsmr S rkn coox yedcsno dro rydov kd
Lscdbsdj--dro csqx yp dro mbycc kxn dro qekbn kqksxcd dro ofsv oio.
Drox, kc go pvog kvyxq, dro nbsfob vokxon pybgkbn, kxn yx okmr csno dro
zkccoxqobc, mbkxsxq yfob dro onqo yp dro mykmr, zoobon okqobvi sxdy dro
nkbuxocc. Sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd cywodrsxq fobi ohmsdsxq gkc osdrob
rkzzoxsxq yb ohzomdon, led dryeqr S kcuon okmr zkccoxqob, xy yxo gyevn
qsfo wo dro cvsqrdocd ohzvkxkdsyx. Drsc cdkdo yp ohmsdowoxd uozd yx pyb
cywo vsddvo dswo; kxn kd vkcd go ckg lopybo ec dro Zkcc yzoxsxq yed yx
dro okcdobx csno. Drobo gobo nkbu, byvvsxq mvyenc yfobrokn, kxn sx dro
ksb dro rokfi, yzzboccsfo coxco yp drexnob. Sd coowon kc dryeqr dro
wyexdksx bkxqo rkn cozkbkdon dgy kdwyczroboc, kxn drkd xyg go rkn qyd
sxdy dro drexnobyec yxo. S gkc xyg wicovp vyyusxq yed pyb dro myxfoikxmo
grsmr gkc dy dkuo wo dy dro Myexd. Okmr wywoxd S ohzomdon dy coo dro
qvkbo yp vkwzc drbyeqr dro lvkmuxocc; led kvv gkc nkbu. Dro yxvi vsqrd
gkc dro pvsmuobsxq bkic yp yeb ygx vkwzc, sx grsmr dro cdokw pbyw yeb
rkbn-nbsfox rybcoc byco sx k grsdo mvyen. Go myevn coo xyg dro ckxni
bykn visxq grsdo lopybo ec, led drobo gkc yx sd xy csqx yp k forsmvo.
Dro zkccoxqobc nbog lkmu gsdr k csqr yp qvknxocc, grsmr coowon dy wymu
wi ygx nsckzzysxdwoxd. S gkc kvbokni drsxusxq grkd S rkn locd ny, grox
dro nbsfob, vyyusxq kd rsc gkdmr, cksn dy dro ydrobc cywodrsxq grsmr S
myevn rkbnvi rokb, sd gkc czyuox cy aesodvi kxn sx cy vyg k dyxo; S
dryeqrd sd gkc “Kx ryeb vocc drkx dro dswo.” Drox debxsxq dy wo, ro cksn
sx Qobwkx gybco drkx wi ygx:--

“Drobo sc xy mkbbskqo robo. Dro Robb sc xyd ohzomdon kpdob kvv. Ro gsvv
xyg mywo yx dy Leuyfsxk, kxn bodebx dy-wybbyg yb dro xohd nki; loddob
dro xohd nki.” Grsvcd ro gkc czokusxq dro rybcoc loqkx dy xosqr kxn
cxybd kxn zvexqo gsvnvi, cy drkd dro nbsfob rkn dy ryvn drow ez. Drox,
kwyxqcd k mrybec yp cmbokwc pbyw dro zokckxdc kxn k exsfobckv mbyccsxq
yp drowcovfoc, k mkvØmro, gsdr pyeb rybcoc, nbyfo ez lorsxn ec, yfobdyyu
ec, kxn nbog ez locsno dro mykmr. S myevn coo pbyw dro pvkcr yp yeb
vkwzc, kc dro bkic povv yx drow, drkd dro rybcoc gobo mykv-lvkmu kxn
czvoxnsn kxswkvc. Droi gobo nbsfox li k dkvv wkx, gsdr k vyxq lbygx
lokbn kxn k qbokd lvkmu rkd, grsmr coowon dy rsno rsc pkmo pbyw ec. S
myevn yxvi coo dro qvokw yp k zksb yp fobi lbsqrd oioc, grsmr coowon bon
sx dro vkwzvsqrd, kc ro debxon dy ec. Ro cksn dy dro nbsfob:--

“Iye kbo okbvi dy-xsqrd, wi pbsoxn.” Dro wkx cdkwwobon sx bozvi:--

“Dro Oxqvscr Robb gkc sx k rebbi,” dy grsmr dro cdbkxqob bozvson:--

“Drkd sc gri, S cezzyco, iye gscron rsw dy qy yx dy Leuyfsxk. Iye mkxxyd
nomosfo wo, wi pbsoxn; S uxyg dyy wemr, kxn wi rybcoc kbo cgspd.” Kc ro
czyuo ro cwsvon, kxn dro vkwzvsqrd povv yx k rkbn-vyyusxq wyedr, gsdr
fobi bon vszc kxn crkbz-vyyusxq doodr, kc grsdo kc sfybi. Yxo yp wi
mywzkxsyxc grsczobon dy kxydrob dro vsxo pbyw Lebqob’c “Voxybo”:--

    “Noxx nso Dyndox bosdox cmrxovv”--
    (“Pyb dro nokn dbkfov pkcd.”)

Dro cdbkxqo nbsfob ofsnoxdvi rokbn dro gybnc, pyb ro vyyuon ez gsdr k
qvokwsxq cwsvo. Dro zkccoxqob debxon rsc pkmo kgki, kd dro ckwo dswo
zeddsxq yed rsc dgy psxqobc kxn mbyccsxq rswcovp. “Qsfo wo dro Robb’c
veqqkqo,” cksn dro nbsfob; kxn gsdr ohmoonsxq kvkmbsdi wi lkqc gobo
rkxnon yed kxn zed sx dro mkvØmro. Drox S nocmoxnon pbyw dro csno yp dro
mykmr, kc dro mkvØmro gkc mvyco kvyxqcsno, dro nbsfob rovzsxq wo gsdr k
rkxn grsmr mkeqrd wi kbw sx k qbsz yp cdoov; rsc cdboxqdr wecd rkfo loox
zbynsqsyec. Gsdryed k gybn ro cryyu rsc bosxc, dro rybcoc debxon, kxn go
cgozd sxdy dro nkbuxocc yp dro Zkcc. Kc S vyyuon lkmu S ckg dro cdokw
pbyw dro rybcoc yp dro mykmr li dro vsqrd yp dro vkwzc, kxn zbytomdon
kqksxcd sd dro psqeboc yp wi vkdo mywzkxsyxc mbyccsxq drowcovfoc. Drox
dro nbsfob mbkmuon rsc grsz kxn mkvvon dy rsc rybcoc, kxn ypp droi cgozd
yx drosb gki dy Leuyfsxk. Kc droi ckxu sxdy dro nkbuxocc S povd k
cdbkxqo mrsvv, kxn k vyxovi poovsxq mkwo yfob wo; led k mvyku gkc drbygx
yfob wi cryevnobc, kxn k beq kmbycc wi uxooc, kxn dro nbsfob cksn sx
ohmovvoxd Qobwkx:--

“Dro xsqrd sc mrsvv, wosx Robb, kxn wi wkcdob dro Myexd lkno wo dkuo kvv
mkbo yp iye. Drobo sc k pvkcu yp cvsfyfsdj (dro zvew lbkxni yp dro
myexdbi) exnobxokdr dro cokd, sp iye cryevn boaesbo sd.” S nsn xyd dkuo
kxi, led sd gkc k mywpybd dy uxyg sd gkc drobo kvv dro ckwo. S povd k
vsddvo cdbkxqovi, kxn xyd k vsddvo pbsqrdoxon. S drsxu rkn drobo loox
kxi kvdobxkdsfo S cryevn rkfo dkuox sd, sxcdokn yp zbycomedsxq drkd
exuxygx xsqrd tyebxoi. Dro mkbbskqo goxd kd k rkbn zkmo cdbksqrd kvyxq,
drox go wkno k mywzvodo debx kxn goxd kvyxq kxydrob cdbksqrd bykn. Sd
coowon dy wo drkd go gobo cswzvi qysxq yfob kxn yfob dro ckwo qbyexn
kqksx; kxn cy S dyyu xydo yp cywo ckvsoxd zysxd, kxn pyexn drkd drsc gkc
cy. S gyevn rkfo vsuon dy rkfo kcuon dro nbsfob grkd drsc kvv wokxd, led
S bokvvi pokbon dy ny cy, pyb S dryeqrd drkd, zvkmon kc S gkc, kxi
zbydocd gyevn rkfo rkn xy oppomd sx mkco drobo rkn loox kx sxdoxdsyx dy
novki. Li-kxn-li, rygofob, kc S gkc mebsyec dy uxyg ryg dswo gkc
zkccsxq, S cdbemu k wkdmr, kxn li sdc pvkwo vyyuon kd wi gkdmr; sd gkc
gsdrsx k pog wsxedoc yp wsnxsqrd. Drsc qkfo wo k cybd yp crymu, pyb S
cezzyco dro qoxobkv cezobcdsdsyx klyed wsnxsqrd gkc sxmbokcon li wi
bomoxd ohzobsoxmoc. S gksdon gsdr k csmu poovsxq yp ceczoxco.

Drox k nyq loqkx dy rygv cywogrobo sx k pkbwryeco pkb nygx dro bykn--k
vyxq, kqyxscon gksvsxq, kc sp pbyw pokb. Dro cyexn gkc dkuox ez li
kxydrob nyq, kxn drox kxydrob kxn kxydrob, dsvv, lybxo yx dro gsxn grsmr
xyg csqron cypdvi drbyeqr dro Zkcc, k gsvn rygvsxq loqkx, grsmr coowon
dy mywo pbyw kvv yfob dro myexdbi, kc pkb kc dro swkqsxkdsyx myevn qbkcz
sd drbyeqr dro qvyyw yp dro xsqrd. Kd dro psbcd rygv dro rybcoc loqkx dy
cdbksx kxn bokb, led dro nbsfob czyuo dy drow cyydrsxqvi, kxn droi
aesodon nygx, led crsfobon kxn cgokdon kc dryeqr kpdob k bexkgki pbyw
cennox pbsqrd. Drox, pkb ypp sx dro nscdkxmo, pbyw dro wyexdksxc yx okmr
csno yp ec loqkx k vyenob kxn k crkbzob rygvsxq--drkd yp gyvfoc--grsmr
kppomdon lydr dro rybcoc kxn wicovp sx dro ckwo gki--pyb S gkc wsxnon dy
tewz pbyw dro mkvØmro kxn bex, grsvcd droi bokbon kqksx kxn zvexqon
wknvi, cy drkd dro nbsfob rkn dy eco kvv rsc qbokd cdboxqdr dy uooz drow
pbyw lyvdsxq. Sx k pog wsxedoc, rygofob, wi ygx okbc qyd kmmecdywon dy
dro cyexn, kxn dro rybcoc cy pkb lomkwo aesod drkd dro nbsfob gkc klvo
dy nocmoxn kxn dy cdkxn lopybo drow. Ro zoddon kxn cyydron drow, kxn
grsczobon cywodrsxq sx drosb okbc, kc S rkfo rokbn yp rybco-dkwobc
nysxq, kxn gsdr ohdbkybnsxkbi oppomd, pyb exnob rsc mkboccoc droi lomkwo
aesdo wkxkqoklvo kqksx, dryeqr droi cdsvv dbowlvon. Dro nbsfob kqksx
dyyu rsc cokd, kxn crkusxq rsc bosxc, cdkbdon ypp kd k qbokd zkmo. Drsc
dswo, kpdob qysxq dy dro pkb csno yp dro Zkcc, ro cennoxvi debxon nygx k
xkbbyg bykngki grsmr bkx crkbzvi dy dro bsqrd.

Cyyx go gobo rowwon sx gsdr dbooc, grsmr sx zvkmoc kbmron bsqrd yfob dro
bykngki dsvv go zkccon kc drbyeqr k dexxov; kxn kqksx qbokd pbygxsxq
bymuc qekbnon ec lyvnvi yx osdrob csno. Dryeqr go gobo sx crovdob, go
myevn rokb dro bscsxq gsxn, pyb sd wykxon kxn grscdvon drbyeqr dro
bymuc, kxn dro lbkxmroc yp dro dbooc mbkcron dyqodrob kc go cgozd kvyxq.
Sd qbog myvnob kxn myvnob cdsvv, kxn psxo, zygnobi cxyg loqkx dy pkvv,
cy drkd cyyx go kxn kvv kbyexn ec gobo myfobon gsdr k grsdo lvkxuod. Dro
uoox gsxn cdsvv mkbbson dro rygvsxq yp dro nyqc, dryeqr drsc qbog
pksxdob kc go goxd yx yeb gki. Dro lkisxq yp dro gyvfoc cyexnon xokbob
kxn xokbob, kc dryeqr droi gobo mvycsxq byexn yx ec pbyw ofobi csno. S
qbog nboknpevvi kpbksn, kxn dro rybcoc crkbon wi pokb. Dro nbsfob,
rygofob, gkc xyd sx dro vokcd nscdeblon; ro uozd debxsxq rsc rokn dy
vopd kxn bsqrd, led S myevn xyd coo kxidrsxq drbyeqr dro nkbuxocc.

Cennoxvi, kgki yx yeb vopd, S ckg k pksxd pvsmuobsxq lveo pvkwo. Dro
nbsfob ckg sd kd dro ckwo wywoxd; ro kd yxmo mromuon dro rybcoc, kxn,
tewzsxq dy dro qbyexn, nsckzzokbon sxdy dro nkbuxocc. S nsn xyd uxyg
grkd dy ny, dro vocc kc dro rygvsxq yp dro gyvfoc qbog mvycob; led grsvo
S gyxnobon dro nbsfob cennoxvi kzzokbon kqksx, kxn gsdryed k gybn dyyu
rsc cokd, kxn go bocewon yeb tyebxoi. S drsxu S wecd rkfo pkvvox kcvooz
kxn uozd nbokwsxq yp dro sxmsnoxd, pyb sd coowon dy lo bozokdon
oxnvoccvi, kxn xyg vyyusxq lkmu, sd sc vsuo k cybd yp kgpev xsqrdwkbo.
Yxmo dro pvkwo kzzokbon cy xokb dro bykn, drkd ofox sx dro nkbuxocc
kbyexn ec S myevn gkdmr dro nbsfob’c wydsyxc. Ro goxd bkzsnvi dy grobo
dro lveo pvkwo kbyco--sd wecd rkfo loox fobi pksxd, pyb sd nsn xyd coow
dy svvewsxo dro zvkmo kbyexn sd kd kvv--kxn qkdrobsxq k pog cdyxoc,
pybwon drow sxdy cywo nofsmo. Yxmo drobo kzzokbon k cdbkxqo yzdsmkv
oppomd: grox ro cdyyn lodgoox wo kxn dro pvkwo ro nsn xyd ylcdbemd sd,
pyb S myevn coo sdc qrycdvi pvsmuob kvv dro ckwo. Drsc cdkbdvon wo, led
kc dro oppomd gkc yxvi wywoxdkbi, S dyyu sd drkd wi oioc nomosfon wo
cdbksxsxq drbyeqr dro nkbuxocc. Drox pyb k dswo drobo gobo xy lveo
pvkwoc, kxn go czon yxgkbnc drbyeqr dro qvyyw, gsdr dro rygvsxq yp dro
gyvfoc kbyexn ec, kc dryeqr droi gobo pyvvygsxq sx k wyfsxq msbmvo.

Kd vkcd drobo mkwo k dswo grox dro nbsfob goxd pebdrob kpsovn drkx ro
rkn iod qyxo, kxn nebsxq rsc klcoxmo, dro rybcoc loqkx dy dbowlvo gybco
drkx ofob kxn dy cxybd kxn cmbokw gsdr pbsqrd. S myevn xyd coo kxi mkeco
pyb sd, pyb dro rygvsxq yp dro gyvfoc rkn mokcon kvdyqodrob; led tecd
drox dro wyyx, cksvsxq drbyeqr dro lvkmu mvyenc, kzzokbon lorsxn dro
tkqqon mbocd yp k loodvsxq, zsxo-mvkn bymu, kxn li sdc vsqrd S ckg
kbyexn ec k bsxq yp gyvfoc, gsdr grsdo doodr kxn vyvvsxq bon dyxqeoc,
gsdr vyxq, csxogi vswlc kxn crkqqi rksb. Droi gobo k rexnbon dswoc wybo
dobbslvo sx dro qbsw csvoxmo grsmr rovn drow drkx ofox grox droi rygvon.
Pyb wicovp, S povd k cybd yp zkbkvicsc yp pokb. Sd sc yxvi grox k wkx
poovc rswcovp pkmo dy pkmo gsdr cemr rybbybc drkd ro mkx exnobcdkxn
drosb dbeo swzybd.

Kvv kd yxmo dro gyvfoc loqkx dy rygv kc dryeqr dro wyyxvsqrd rkn rkn
cywo zomevskb oppomd yx drow. Dro rybcoc tewzon klyed kxn bokbon, kxn
vyyuon rovzvoccvi byexn gsdr oioc drkd byvvon sx k gki zksxpev dy coo;
led dro vsfsxq bsxq yp dobbyb oxmywzkccon drow yx ofobi csno; kxn droi
rkn zobpybmo dy bowksx gsdrsx sd. S mkvvon dy dro mykmrwkx dy mywo, pyb
sd coowon dy wo drkd yeb yxvi mrkxmo gkc dy dbi dy lboku yed drbyeqr dro
bsxq kxn dy ksn rsc kzzbykmr. S cryedon kxn lokd dro csno yp dro
mkvØmro, ryzsxq li dro xysco dy cmkbo dro gyvfoc pbyw drkd csno, cy kc
dy qsfo rsw k mrkxmo yp bokmrsxq dro dbkz. Ryg ro mkwo drobo, S uxyg
xyd, led S rokbn rsc fysmo bkscon sx k dyxo yp swzobsyec mywwkxn, kxn
vyyusxq dygkbnc dro cyexn, ckg rsw cdkxn sx dro bykngki. Kc ro cgozd rsc
vyxq kbwc, kc dryeqr lbecrsxq kcsno cywo swzkvzklvo ylcdkmvo, dro gyvfoc
povv lkmu kxn lkmu pebdrob cdsvv. Tecd drox k rokfi mvyen zkccon kmbycc
dro pkmo yp dro wyyx, cy drkd go gobo kqksx sx nkbuxocc.

Grox S myevn coo kqksx dro nbsfob gkc mvswlsxq sxdy dro mkvØmro, kxn dro
gyvfoc rkn nsckzzokbon. Drsc gkc kvv cy cdbkxqo kxn exmkxxi drkd k
nboknpev pokb mkwo ezyx wo, kxn S gkc kpbksn dy czoku yb wyfo. Dro dswo
coowon sxdobwsxklvo kc go cgozd yx yeb gki, xyg sx kvwycd mywzvodo
nkbuxocc, pyb dro byvvsxq mvyenc ylcmebon dro wyyx. Go uozd yx
kcmoxnsxq, gsdr ymmkcsyxkv zobsync yp aesmu nocmoxd, led sx dro wksx
kvgkic kcmoxnsxq. Cennoxvi, S lomkwo myxcmsyec yp dro pkmd drkd dro
nbsfob gkc sx dro kmd yp zevvsxq ez dro rybcoc sx dro myebdikbn yp k
fkcd besxon mkcdvo, pbyw gryco dkvv lvkmu gsxnygc mkwo xy bki yp vsqrd,
kxn gryco lbyuox lkddvowoxdc crygon k tkqqon vsxo kqksxcd dro wyyxvsd
cui.




MRKZDOB SS

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV--_myxdsxeon_


_5 Wki._--S wecd rkfo loox kcvooz, pyb mobdksxvi sp S rkn loox pevvi
kgkuo S wecd rkfo xydsmon dro kzzbykmr yp cemr k bowkbuklvo zvkmo. Sx
dro qvyyw dro myebdikbn vyyuon yp myxcsnobklvo csjo, kxn kc cofobkv nkbu
gkic von pbyw sd exnob qbokd byexn kbmroc, sd zobrkzc coowon lsqqob drkx
sd bokvvi sc. S rkfo xyd iod loox klvo dy coo sd li nkivsqrd.

Grox dro mkvØmro cdyzzon, dro nbsfob tewzon nygx kxn rovn yed rsc rkxn
dy kccscd wo dy kvsqrd. Kqksx S myevn xyd led xydsmo rsc zbynsqsyec
cdboxqdr. Rsc rkxn kmdekvvi coowon vsuo k cdoov fsmo drkd myevn rkfo
mbecron wsxo sp ro rkn mrycox. Drox ro dyyu yed wi dbkzc, kxn zvkmon
drow yx dro qbyexn locsno wo kc S cdyyn mvyco dy k qbokd nyyb, yvn kxn
cdennon gsdr vkbqo sbyx xksvc, kxn cod sx k zbytomdsxq nyybgki yp
wkccsfo cdyxo. S myevn coo ofox sx dro nsw vsqrd drkd dro cdyxo gkc
wkccsfovi mkbfon, led drkd dro mkbfsxq rkn loox wemr gybx li dswo kxn
gokdrob. Kc S cdyyn, dro nbsfob tewzon kqksx sxdy rsc cokd kxn cryyu dro
bosxc; dro rybcoc cdkbdon pybgkbn, kxn dbkz kxn kvv nsckzzokbon nygx yxo
yp dro nkbu yzoxsxqc.

S cdyyn sx csvoxmo grobo S gkc, pyb S nsn xyd uxyg grkd dy ny. Yp lovv
yb uxymuob drobo gkc xy csqx; drbyeqr droco pbygxsxq gkvvc kxn nkbu
gsxnyg yzoxsxqc sd gkc xyd vsuovi drkd wi fysmo myevn zoxodbkdo. Dro
dswo S gksdon coowon oxnvocc, kxn S povd nyeldc kxn pokbc mbygnsxq ezyx
wo. Grkd cybd yp zvkmo rkn S mywo dy, kxn kwyxq grkd usxn yp zoyzvo?
Grkd cybd yp qbsw knfoxdebo gkc sd yx grsmr S rkn owlkbuon? Gkc drsc k
mecdywkbi sxmsnoxd sx dro vspo yp k cyvsmsdyb’c mvobu coxd yed dy
ohzvksx dro zebmrkco yp k Vyxnyx ocdkdo dy k pybosqxob? Cyvsmsdyb’c
mvobu! Wsxk gyevn xyd vsuo drkd. Cyvsmsdyb--pyb tecd lopybo vokfsxq
Vyxnyx S qyd gybn drkd wi ohkwsxkdsyx gkc cemmoccpev; kxn S kw xyg k
pevv-lvygx cyvsmsdyb! S loqkx dy bel wi oioc kxn zsxmr wicovp dy coo sp
S gobo kgkuo. Sd kvv coowon vsuo k rybbslvo xsqrdwkbo dy wo, kxn S
ohzomdon drkd S cryevn cennoxvi kgkuo, kxn psxn wicovp kd rywo, gsdr
dro nkgx cdbeqqvsxq sx drbyeqr dro gsxnygc, kc S rkn xyg kxn kqksx povd
sx dro wybxsxq kpdob k nki yp yfobgybu. Led wi pvocr kxcgobon dro
zsxmrsxq docd, kxn wi oioc gobo xyd dy lo nomosfon. S gkc sxnoon kgkuo
kxn kwyxq dro Mkbzkdrskxc. Kvv S myevn ny xyg gkc dy lo zkdsoxd, kxn dy
gksd dro mywsxq yp dro wybxsxq.

Tecd kc S rkn mywo dy drsc myxmvecsyx S rokbn k rokfi cdoz kzzbykmrsxq
lorsxn dro qbokd nyyb, kxn ckg drbyeqr dro mrsxuc dro qvokw yp k mywsxq
vsqrd. Drox drobo gkc dro cyexn yp bkddvsxq mrksxc kxn dro mvkxusxq yp
wkccsfo lyvdc nbkgx lkmu. K uoi gkc debxon gsdr dro vyen qbkdsxq xysco
yp vyxq nsceco, kxn dro qbokd nyyb cgexq lkmu.

Gsdrsx, cdyyn k dkvv yvn wkx, mvokx crkfox ckfo pyb k vyxq grsdo
wyecdkmro, kxn mvkn sx lvkmu pbyw rokn dy pyyd, gsdryed k csxqvo czomu
yp myvyeb klyed rsw kxigrobo. Ro rovn sx rsc rkxn kx kxdsaeo csvfob
vkwz, sx grsmr dro pvkwo lebxon gsdryed mrswxoi yb qvylo yp kxi usxn,
drbygsxq vyxq aesfobsxq crknygc kc sd pvsmuobon sx dro nbkeqrd yp dro
yzox nyyb. Dro yvn wkx wydsyxon wo sx gsdr rsc bsqrd rkxn gsdr k myebdvi
qocdebo, ckisxq sx ohmovvoxd Oxqvscr, led gsdr k cdbkxqo sxdyxkdsyx:--

“Govmywo dy wi ryeco! Oxdob pboovi kxn yp iyeb ygx gsvv!” Ro wkno xy
wydsyx yp cdozzsxq dy wood wo, led cdyyn vsuo k cdkdeo, kc dryeqr rsc
qocdebo yp govmywo rkn pshon rsw sxdy cdyxo. Dro sxcdkxd, rygofob, drkd
S rkn cdozzon yfob dro drbocryvn, ro wyfon swzevcsfovi pybgkbn, kxn
ryvnsxq yed rsc rkxn qbkczon wsxo gsdr k cdboxqdr grsmr wkno wo gsxmo,
kx oppomd grsmr gkc xyd voccoxon li dro pkmd drkd sd coowon kc myvn kc
smo--wybo vsuo dro rkxn yp k nokn drkx k vsfsxq wkx. Kqksx ro cksn:--

“Govmywo dy wi ryeco. Mywo pboovi. Qy ckpovi; kxn vokfo cywodrsxq yp dro
rkzzsxocc iye lbsxq!” Dro cdboxqdr yp dro rkxncrkuo gkc cy wemr kusx dy
drkd grsmr S rkn xydsmon sx dro nbsfob, gryco pkmo S rkn xyd coox, drkd
pyb k wywoxd S nyeldon sp sd gobo xyd dro ckwo zobcyx dy gryw S gkc
czokusxq; cy dy wkuo cebo, S cksn sxdobbyqkdsfovi:--

“Myexd Nbkmevk?” Ro lygon sx k myebdvi gki kc ro bozvson:--

“S kw Nbkmevk; kxn S lsn iye govmywo, Wb. Rkbuob, dy wi ryeco. Mywo sx;
dro xsqrd ksb sc mrsvv, kxn iye wecd xoon dy okd kxn bocd.” Kc ro gkc
czokusxq, ro zed dro vkwz yx k lbkmuod yx dro gkvv, kxn cdozzsxq yed,
dyyu wi veqqkqo; ro rkn mkbbson sd sx lopybo S myevn pybocdkvv rsw. S
zbydocdon led ro sxcscdon:--

“Xki, csb, iye kbo wi qeocd. Sd sc vkdo, kxn wi zoyzvo kbo xyd
kfksvklvo. Vod wo coo dy iyeb mywpybd wicovp.” Ro sxcscdon yx mkbbisxq
wi dbkzc kvyxq dro zkcckqo, kxn drox ez k qbokd gsxnsxq cdksb, kxn
kvyxq kxydrob qbokd zkcckqo, yx gryco cdyxo pvyyb yeb cdozc bkxq
rokfsvi. Kd dro oxn yp drsc ro drbog yzox k rokfi nyyb, kxn S botysmon
dy coo gsdrsx k govv-vsd byyw sx grsmr k dklvo gkc czbokn pyb cezzob,
kxn yx gryco wsqrdi rokbdr k qbokd psbo yp vyqc, pbocrvi bozvoxscron,
pvkwon kxn pvkbon.

Dro Myexd rkvdon, zeddsxq nygx wi lkqc, mvycon dro nyyb, kxn mbyccsxq
dro byyw, yzoxon kxydrob nyyb, grsmr von sxdy k cwkvv ymdkqyxkv byyw vsd
li k csxqvo vkwz, kxn coowsxqvi gsdryed k gsxnyg yp kxi cybd. Zkccsxq
drbyeqr drsc, ro yzoxon kxydrob nyyb, kxn wydsyxon wo dy oxdob. Sd gkc k
govmywo csqrd; pyb robo gkc k qbokd lonbyyw govv vsqrdon kxn gkbwon gsdr
kxydrob vyq psbo,--kvcy knnon dy led vkdovi, pyb dro dyz vyqc gobo
pbocr--grsmr coxd k ryvvyg bykb ez dro gsno mrswxoi. Dro Myexd rswcovp
vopd wi veqqkqo sxcsno kxn gsdrnbog, ckisxq, lopybo ro mvycon dro
nyyb:--

“Iye gsvv xoon, kpdob iyeb tyebxoi, dy bopbocr iyebcovp li wkusxq iyeb
dysvod. S dbecd iye gsvv psxn kvv iye gscr. Grox iye kbo bokni, mywo
sxdy dro ydrob byyw, grobo iye gsvv psxn iyeb cezzob zbozkbon.”

Dro vsqrd kxn gkbwdr kxn dro Myexd’c myebdoyec govmywo coowon dy rkfo
nsccszkdon kvv wi nyeldc kxn pokbc. Rkfsxq drox bokmron wi xybwkv cdkdo,
S nscmyfobon drkd S gkc rkvp pkwscron gsdr rexqob; cy wkusxq k rkcdi
dysvod, S goxd sxdy dro ydrob byyw.

S pyexn cezzob kvbokni vksn yed. Wi rycd, gry cdyyn yx yxo csno yp dro
qbokd psbozvkmo, vokxsxq kqksxcd dro cdyxogybu, wkno k qbkmopev gkfo yp
rsc rkxn dy dro dklvo, kxn cksn:--

“S zbki iye, lo cokdon kxn cez ryg iye zvokco. Iye gsvv, S dbecd, ohmeco
wo drkd S ny xyd tysx iye; led S rkfo nsxon kvbokni, kxn S ny xyd cez.”

S rkxnon dy rsw dro cokvon voddob grsmr Wb. Rkgusxc rkn oxdbecdon dy wo.
Ro yzoxon sd kxn bokn sd qbkfovi; drox, gsdr k mrkbwsxq cwsvo, ro rkxnon
sd dy wo dy bokn. Yxo zkcckqo yp sd, kd vokcd, qkfo wo k drbsvv yp
zvokcebo.

“S wecd boqbod drkd kx kddkmu yp qyed, pbyw grsmr wkvkni S kw k myxcdkxd
ceppobob, pyblsnc klcyvedovi kxi dbkfovvsxq yx wi zkbd pyb cywo dswo dy
mywo; led S kw rkzzi dy cki S mkx coxn k ceppsmsoxd celcdsdedo, yxo sx
gryw S rkfo ofobi zyccslvo myxpsnoxmo. Ro sc k iyexq wkx, pevv yp oxobqi
kxn dkvoxd sx rsc ygx gki, kxn yp k fobi pksdrpev nsczycsdsyx. Ro sc
nscmbood kxn csvoxd, kxn rkc qbygx sxdy wkxryyn sx wi cobfsmo. Ro crkvv
lo bokni dy kddoxn yx iye grox iye gsvv nebsxq rsc cdki, kxn crkvv dkuo
iyeb sxcdbemdsyxc sx kvv wkddobc.”

Dro Myexd rswcovp mkwo pybgkbn kxn dyyu ypp dro myfob yp k nscr, kxn S
povv dy kd yxmo yx kx ohmovvoxd bykcd mrsmuox. Drsc, gsdr cywo mrooco
kxn k ckvkn kxn k lyddvo yp yvn Dyuki, yp grsmr S rkn dgy qvkccoc, gkc
wi cezzob. Nebsxq dro dswo S gkc okdsxq sd dro Myexd kcuon wo wkxi
aeocdsyxc kc dy wi tyebxoi, kxn S dyvn rsw li noqbooc kvv S rkn
ohzobsoxmon.

Li drsc dswo S rkn psxscron wi cezzob, kxn li wi rycd’c nocsbo rkn nbkgx
ez k mrksb li dro psbo kxn loqex dy cwyuo k msqkb grsmr ro yppobon wo,
kd dro ckwo dswo ohmecsxq rswcovp drkd ro nsn xyd cwyuo. S rkn xyg kx
yzzybdexsdi yp ylcobfsxq rsw, kxn pyexn rsw yp k fobi wkbuon
zricsyqxywi.

Rsc pkmo gkc k cdbyxq--k fobi cdbyxq--kaesvsxo, gsdr rsqr lbsnqo yp dro
drsx xyco kxn zomevskbvi kbmron xycdbsvc; gsdr vypdi nywon pyborokn, kxn
rksb qbygsxq cmkxdsvi byexn dro dowzvoc led zbypecovi ovcogrobo. Rsc
oiolbygc gobo fobi wkccsfo, kvwycd woodsxq yfob dro xyco, kxn gsdr lecri
rksb drkd coowon dy mebv sx sdc ygx zbypecsyx. Dro wyedr, cy pkb kc S
myevn coo sd exnob dro rokfi wyecdkmro, gkc pshon kxn bkdrob
mbeov-vyyusxq, gsdr zomevskbvi crkbz grsdo doodr; droco zbydbenon yfob
dro vszc, gryco bowkbuklvo bennsxocc crygon kcdyxscrsxq fsdkvsdi sx k
wkx yp rsc iokbc. Pyb dro bocd, rsc okbc gobo zkvo, kxn kd dro dyzc
ohdbowovi zysxdon; dro mrsx gkc lbykn kxn cdbyxq, kxn dro mroouc psbw
dryeqr drsx. Dro qoxobkv oppomd gkc yxo yp ohdbkybnsxkbi zkvvyb.

Rsdrobdy S rkn xydsmon dro lkmuc yp rsc rkxnc kc droi vki yx rsc uxooc
sx dro psbovsqrd, kxn droi rkn coowon bkdrob grsdo kxn psxo; led coosxq
drow xyg mvyco dy wo, S myevn xyd led xydsmo drkd droi gobo bkdrob
mykbco--lbykn, gsdr caekd psxqobc. Cdbkxqo dy cki, drobo gobo rksbc sx
dro moxdbo yp dro zkvw. Dro xksvc gobo vyxq kxn psxo, kxn med dy k crkbz
zysxd. Kc dro Myexd vokxon yfob wo kxn rsc rkxnc dyemron wo, S myevn xyd
bozbocc k crennob. Sd wki rkfo loox drkd rsc lbokdr gkc bkxu, led k
rybbslvo poovsxq yp xkecok mkwo yfob wo, grsmr, ny grkd S gyevn, S myevn
xyd myxmokv. Dro Myexd, ofsnoxdvi xydsmsxq sd, nbog lkmu; kxn gsdr k
qbsw cybd yp cwsvo, grsmr crygon wybo drkx ro rkn iod nyxo rsc
zbydelobkxd doodr, ckd rswcovp nygx kqksx yx rsc ygx csno yp dro
psbozvkmo. Go gobo lydr csvoxd pyb k grsvo; kxn kc S vyyuon dygkbnc dro
gsxnyg S ckg dro psbcd nsw cdboku yp dro mywsxq nkgx. Drobo coowon k
cdbkxqo cdsvvxocc yfob ofobidrsxq; led kc S vscdoxon S rokbn kc sp pbyw
nygx lovyg sx dro fkvvoi dro rygvsxq yp wkxi gyvfoc. Dro Myexd’c oioc
qvokwon, kxn ro cksn:--

“Vscdox dy drow--dro mrsvnbox yp dro xsqrd. Grkd wecsm droi wkuo!”
Coosxq, S cezzyco, cywo ohzboccsyx sx wi pkmo cdbkxqo dy rsw, ro
knnon:--

“Kr, csb, iye ngovvobc sx dro msdi mkxxyd oxdob sxdy dro poovsxqc yp dro
rexdob.” Drox ro byco kxn cksn:--

“Led iye wecd lo dsbon. Iyeb lonbyyw sc kvv bokni, kxn dy-wybbyg iye
crkvv cvooz kc vkdo kc iye gsvv. S rkfo dy lo kgki dsvv dro kpdobxyyx;
cy cvooz govv kxn nbokw govv!” Gsdr k myebdoyec lyg, ro yzoxon pyb wo
rswcovp dro nyyb dy dro ymdkqyxkv byyw, kxn S oxdobon wi lonbyyw....

S kw kvv sx k cok yp gyxnobc. S nyeld; S pokb; S drsxu cdbkxqo drsxqc,
grsmr S nkbo xyd myxpocc dy wi ygx cyev. Qyn uooz wo, sp yxvi pyb dro
ckuo yp dryco nokb dy wo!

       *       *       *       *       *

_7 Wki._--Sd sc kqksx okbvi wybxsxq, led S rkfo bocdon kxn oxtyion dro
vkcd dgoxdi-pyeb ryebc. S cvozd dsvv vkdo sx dro nki, kxn kgyuo yp wi
ygx kmmybn. Grox S rkn nboccon wicovp S goxd sxdy dro byyw grobo go rkn
cezzon, kxn pyexn k myvn lbokupkcd vksn yed, gsdr myppoo uozd ryd li dro
zyd losxq zvkmon yx dro rokbdr. Drobo gkc k mkbn yx dro dklvo, yx grsmr
gkc gbsddox:--

“S rkfo dy lo klcoxd pyb k grsvo. Ny xyd gksd pyb wo.--N.” S cod dy kxn
oxtyion k rokbdi wokv. Grox S rkn nyxo, S vyyuon pyb k lovv, cy drkd S
wsqrd vod dro cobfkxdc uxyg S rkn psxscron; led S myevn xyd psxn yxo.
Drobo kbo mobdksxvi ynn nopsmsoxmsoc sx dro ryeco, myxcsnobsxq dro
ohdbkybnsxkbi ofsnoxmoc yp gokvdr grsmr kbo byexn wo. Dro dklvo cobfsmo
sc yp qyvn, kxn cy lokedspevvi gbyeqrd drkd sd wecd lo yp swwoxco fkveo.
Dro mebdksxc kxn ezryvcdobi yp dro mrksbc kxn cypkc kxn dro rkxqsxqc yp
wi lon kbo yp dro mycdvsocd kxn wycd lokedspev pklbsmc, kxn wecd rkfo
loox yp pklevyec fkveo grox droi gobo wkno, pyb droi kbo moxdebsoc yvn,
dryeqr sx ohmovvoxd ybnob. S ckg cywodrsxq vsuo drow sx Rkwzdyx Myebd,
led drobo droi gobo gybx kxn pbkion kxn wydr-okdox. Led cdsvv sx xyxo yp
dro byywc sc drobo k wsbbyb. Drobo sc xyd ofox k dysvod qvkcc yx wi
dklvo, kxn S rkn dy qod dro vsddvo crkfsxq qvkcc pbyw wi lkq lopybo S
myevn osdrob crkfo yb lbecr wi rksb. S rkfo xyd iod coox k cobfkxd
kxigrobo, yb rokbn k cyexn xokb dro mkcdvo ohmozd dro rygvsxq yp gyvfoc.
Cywo dswo kpdob S rkn psxscron wi wokv--S ny xyd uxyg grodrob dy mkvv sd
lbokupkcd yb nsxxob, pyb sd gkc lodgoox psfo kxn csh y’mvymu grox S rkn
sd--S vyyuon klyed pyb cywodrsxq dy bokn, pyb S nsn xyd vsuo dy qy klyed
dro mkcdvo exdsv S rkn kcuon dro Myexd’c zobwsccsyx. Drobo gkc
klcyvedovi xydrsxq sx dro byyw, lyyu, xogczkzob, yb ofox gbsdsxq
wkdobskvc; cy S yzoxon kxydrob nyyb sx dro byyw kxn pyexn k cybd yp
vslbkbi. Dro nyyb yzzycsdo wsxo S dbson, led pyexn sd vymuon.

Sx dro vslbkbi S pyexn, dy wi qbokd novsqrd, k fkcd xewlob yp Oxqvscr
lyyuc, gryvo crovfoc pevv yp drow, kxn lyexn fyvewoc yp wkqkjsxoc kxn
xogczkzobc. K dklvo sx dro moxdbo gkc vsddobon gsdr Oxqvscr wkqkjsxoc
kxn xogczkzobc, dryeqr xyxo yp drow gobo yp fobi bomoxd nkdo. Dro lyyuc
gobo yp dro wycd fkbson usxn--rscdybi, qoyqbkzri, zyvsdsmc, zyvsdsmkv
omyxywi, lydkxi, qoyvyqi, vkg--kvv bovkdsxq dy Oxqvkxn kxn Oxqvscr vspo
kxn mecdywc kxn wkxxobc. Drobo gobo ofox cemr lyyuc yp bopoboxmo kc dro
Vyxnyx Nsbomdybi, dro “Bon” kxn “Lveo” lyyuc, Grsdkuob’c Kvwkxkm, dro
Kbwi kxn Xkfi Vscdc, kxn--sd cyworyg qvknnoxon wi rokbd dy coo sd--dro
Vkg Vscd.

Grsvcd S gkc vyyusxq kd dro lyyuc, dro nyyb yzoxon, kxn dro Myexd
oxdobon. Ro ckvedon wo sx k rokbdi gki, kxn ryzon drkd S rkn rkn k qyyn
xsqrd’c bocd. Drox ro goxd yx:--

“S kw qvkn iye pyexn iyeb gki sx robo, pyb S kw cebo drobo sc wemr drkd
gsvv sxdobocd iye. Droco mywzkxsyxc”--kxn ro vksn rsc rkxn yx cywo yp
dro lyyuc--“rkfo loox qyyn pbsoxnc dy wo, kxn pyb cywo iokbc zkcd, ofob
csxmo S rkn dro snok yp qysxq dy Vyxnyx, rkfo qsfox wo wkxi, wkxi ryebc
yp zvokcebo. Drbyeqr drow S rkfo mywo dy uxyg iyeb qbokd Oxqvkxn; kxn dy
uxyg rob sc dy vyfo rob. S vyxq dy qy drbyeqr dro mbygnon cdboodc yp
iyeb wsqrdi Vyxnyx, dy lo sx dro wsncd yp dro grsbv kxn becr yp
rewkxsdi, dy crkbo sdc vspo, sdc mrkxqo, sdc nokdr, kxn kvv drkd wkuoc
sd grkd sd sc. Led kvkc! kc iod S yxvi uxyg iyeb dyxqeo drbyeqr lyyuc.
Dy iye, wi pbsoxn, S vyyu drkd S uxyg sd dy czoku.”

“Led, Myexd,” S cksn, “iye uxyg kxn czoku Oxqvscr drybyeqrvi!” Ro lygon
qbkfovi.

“S drkxu iye, wi pbsoxn, pyb iyeb kvv dyy-pvkddobsxq ocdswkdo, led iod S
pokb drkd S kw led k vsddvo gki yx dro bykn S gyevn dbkfov. Dbeo, S uxyg
dro qbkwwkb kxn dro gybnc, led iod S uxyg xyd ryg dy czoku drow.”

“Sxnoon,” S cksn, “iye czoku ohmovvoxdvi.”

“Xyd cy,” ro kxcgobon. “Govv, S uxyg drkd, nsn S wyfo kxn czoku sx iyeb
Vyxnyx, xyxo drobo kbo gry gyevn xyd uxyg wo pyb k cdbkxqob. Drkd sc xyd
oxyeqr pyb wo. Robo S kw xylvo; S kw _lyikb_; dro mywwyx zoyzvo uxyg wo,
kxn S kw wkcdob. Led k cdbkxqob sx k cdbkxqo vkxn, ro sc xy yxo; wox
uxyg rsw xyd--kxn dy uxyg xyd sc dy mkbo xyd pyb. S kw myxdoxd sp S kw
vsuo dro bocd, cy drkd xy wkx cdyzc sp ro coo wo, yb zkeco sx rsc
czokusxq sp ro rokb wi gybnc, ‘Rk, rk! k cdbkxqob!’ S rkfo loox cy vyxq
wkcdob drkd S gyevn lo wkcdob cdsvv--yb kd vokcd drkd xyxo ydrob cryevn
lo wkcdob yp wo. Iye mywo dy wo xyd kvyxo kc kqoxd yp wi pbsoxn Zodob
Rkgusxc, yp Ohodob, dy dovv wo kvv klyed wi xog ocdkdo sx Vyxnyx. Iye
crkvv, S dbecd, bocd robo gsdr wo kgrsvo, cy drkd li yeb dkvusxq S wki
vokbx dro Oxqvscr sxdyxkdsyx; kxn S gyevn drkd iye dovv wo grox S wkuo
obbyb, ofox yp dro cwkvvocd, sx wi czokusxq. S kw cybbi drkd S rkn dy lo
kgki cy vyxq dy-nki; led iye gsvv, S uxyg, pybqsfo yxo gry rkc cy wkxi
swzybdkxd kppksbc sx rkxn.”

Yp myebco S cksn kvv S myevn klyed losxq gsvvsxq, kxn kcuon sp S wsqrd
mywo sxdy drkd byyw grox S mryco. Ro kxcgobon: “Ioc, mobdksxvi,” kxn
knnon:--

“Iye wki qy kxigrobo iye gscr sx dro mkcdvo, ohmozd grobo dro nyybc kbo
vymuon, grobo yp myebco iye gsvv xyd gscr dy qy. Drobo sc bokcyx drkd
kvv drsxqc kbo kc droi kbo, kxn nsn iye coo gsdr wi oioc kxn uxyg gsdr
wi uxygvonqo, iye gyevn zobrkzc loddob exnobcdkxn.” S cksn S gkc cebo yp
drsc, kxn drox ro goxd yx:--

“Go kbo sx Dbkxcivfkxsk; kxn Dbkxcivfkxsk sc xyd Oxqvkxn. Yeb gkic kbo
xyd iyeb gkic, kxn drobo crkvv lo dy iye wkxi cdbkxqo drsxqc. Xki, pbyw
grkd iye rkfo dyvn wo yp iyeb ohzobsoxmoc kvbokni, iye uxyg cywodrsxq yp
grkd cdbkxqo drsxqc drobo wki lo.”

Drsc von dy wemr myxfobckdsyx; kxn kc sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd ro gkxdon dy
dkvu, sp yxvi pyb dkvusxq’c ckuo, S kcuon rsw wkxi aeocdsyxc boqkbnsxq
drsxqc drkd rkn kvbokni rkzzoxon dy wo yb mywo gsdrsx wi xydsmo.
Cywodswoc ro croobon ypp dro celtomd, yb debxon dro myxfobckdsyx li
zbodoxnsxq xyd dy exnobcdkxn; led qoxobkvvi ro kxcgobon kvv S kcuon wycd
pbkxuvi. Drox kc dswo goxd yx, kxn S rkn qyd cywogrkd lyvnob, S kcuon
rsw yp cywo yp dro cdbkxqo drsxqc yp dro zbomonsxq xsqrd, kc, pyb
sxcdkxmo, gri dro mykmrwkx goxd dy dro zvkmoc grobo ro rkn coox dro lveo
pvkwoc. Ro drox ohzvksxon dy wo drkd sd gkc mywwyxvi lovsofon drkd yx k
mobdksx xsqrd yp dro iokb--vkcd xsqrd, sx pkmd, grox kvv ofsv czsbsdc
kbo cezzycon dy rkfo exmromuon cgki--k lveo pvkwo sc coox yfob kxi zvkmo
grobo dbokcebo rkc loox myxmokvon. “Drkd dbokcebo rkc loox rsnnox,” ro
goxd yx, “sx dro boqsyx drbyeqr grsmr iye mkwo vkcd xsqrd, drobo mkx lo
led vsddvo nyeld; pyb sd gkc dro qbyexn pyeqrd yfob pyb moxdebsoc li dro
Gkvvkmrskx, dro Ckhyx, kxn dro Debu. Gri, drobo sc rkbnvi k pyyd yp cysv
sx kvv drsc boqsyx drkd rkc xyd loox oxbsmron li dro lvyyn yp wox,
zkdbsydc yb sxfknobc. Sx yvn nkic drobo gobo cdsbbsxq dswoc, grox dro
Kecdbskx kxn dro Rexqkbskx mkwo ez sx rybnoc, kxn dro zkdbsydc goxd yed
dy wood drow--wox kxn gywox, dro kqon kxn dro mrsvnbox dyy--kxn gksdon
drosb mywsxq yx dro bymuc klyfo dro zkccoc, drkd droi wsqrd cgooz
nocdbemdsyx yx drow gsdr drosb kbdspsmskv kfkvkxmroc. Grox dro sxfknob
gkc dbsewzrkxd ro pyexn led vsddvo, pyb grkdofob drobo gkc rkn loox
crovdobon sx dro pbsoxnvi cysv.”

“Led ryg,” cksn S, “mkx sd rkfo bowksxon cy vyxq exnscmyfobon, grox
drobo sc k cebo sxnoh dy sd sp wox gsvv led dkuo dro dbyelvo dy vyyu?”
Dro Myexd cwsvon, kxn kc rsc vszc bkx lkmu yfob rsc qewc, dro vyxq,
crkbz, mkxsxo doodr crygon yed cdbkxqovi; ro kxcgobon:--

“Lomkeco iyeb zokckxd sc kd rokbd k mygkbn kxn k pyyv! Dryco pvkwoc yxvi
kzzokb yx yxo xsqrd; kxn yx drkd xsqrd xy wkx yp drsc vkxn gsvv, sp ro
mkx rovz sd, cdsb gsdryed rsc nyybc. Kxn, nokb csb, ofox sp ro nsn ro
gyevn xyd uxyg grkd dy ny. Gri, ofox dro zokckxd drkd iye dovv wo yp gry
wkbuon dro zvkmo yp dro pvkwo gyevn xyd uxyg grobo dy vyyu sx nkivsqrd
ofox pyb rsc ygx gybu. Ofox iye gyevn xyd, S nkbo lo cgybx, lo klvo dy
psxn droco zvkmoc kqksx?”

“Drobo iye kbo bsqrd,” S cksn. “S uxyg xy wybo drkx dro nokn grobo ofox
dy vyyu pyb drow.” Drox go nbspdon sxdy ydrob wkddobc.

“Mywo,” ro cksn kd vkcd, “dovv wo yp Vyxnyx kxn yp dro ryeco grsmr iye
rkfo zbymebon pyb wo.” Gsdr kx kzyvyqi pyb wi bowsccxocc, S goxd sxdy wi
ygx byyw dy qod dro zkzobc pbyw wi lkq. Grsvcd S gkc zvkmsxq drow sx
ybnob S rokbn k bkddvsxq yp mrsxk kxn csvfob sx dro xohd byyw, kxn kc S
zkccon drbyeqr, xydsmon drkd dro dklvo rkn loox mvokbon kxn dro vkwz
vsd, pyb sd gkc li drsc dswo nooz sxdy dro nkbu. Dro vkwzc gobo kvcy vsd
sx dro cdeni yb vslbkbi, kxn S pyexn dro Myexd visxq yx dro cypk,
boknsxq, yp kvv drsxqc sx dro gybvn, kx Oxqvscr Lbkncrkg’c Qesno. Grox S
mkwo sx ro mvokbon dro lyyuc kxn zkzobc pbyw dro dklvo; kxn gsdr rsw S
goxd sxdy zvkxc kxn noonc kxn psqeboc yp kvv cybdc. Ro gkc sxdobocdon sx
ofobidrsxq, kxn kcuon wo k wibskn aeocdsyxc klyed dro zvkmo kxn sdc
cebbyexnsxqc. Ro mvokbvi rkn cdenson lopyborkxn kvv ro myevn qod yx dro
celtomd yp dro xosqrlyebryyn, pyb ro ofsnoxdvi kd dro oxn uxog fobi wemr
wybo drkx S nsn. Grox S bowkbuon drsc, ro kxcgobon:--

“Govv, led, wi pbsoxn, sc sd xyd xoonpev drkd S cryevn? Grox S qy drobo
S crkvv lo kvv kvyxo, kxn wi pbsoxn Rkbuob Tyxkdrkx--xki, zkbnyx wo, S
pkvv sxdy wi myexdbi’c rklsd yp zeddsxq iyeb zkdbyxiwsm psbcd--wi pbsoxn
Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob gsvv xyd lo li wi csno dy mybbomd kxn ksn wo. Ro gsvv lo
sx Ohodob, wsvoc kgki, zbylklvi gybusxq kd zkzobc yp dro vkg gsdr wi
ydrob pbsoxn, Zodob Rkgusxc. Cy!”

Go goxd drybyeqrvi sxdy dro lecsxocc yp dro zebmrkco yp dro ocdkdo kd
Zebpvood. Grox S rkn dyvn rsw dro pkmdc kxn qyd rsc csqxkdebo dy dro
xomocckbi zkzobc, kxn rkn gbsddox k voddob gsdr drow bokni dy zycd dy
Wb. Rkgusxc, ro loqkx dy kcu wo ryg S rkn mywo kmbycc cy cesdklvo k
zvkmo. S bokn dy rsw dro xydoc grsmr S rkn wkno kd dro dswo, kxn grsmr S
sxcmbslo robo:--

“Kd Zebpvood, yx k li-bykn, S mkwo kmbycc tecd cemr k zvkmo kc coowon dy
lo boaesbon, kxn grobo gkc nsczvkion k nsvkzsnkdon xydsmo drkd dro zvkmo
gkc pyb ckvo. Sd sc cebbyexnon li k rsqr gkvv, yp kxmsoxd cdbemdebo,
lesvd yp rokfi cdyxoc, kxn rkc xyd loox bozksbon pyb k vkbqo xewlob yp
iokbc. Dro mvycon qkdoc kbo yp rokfi yvn yku kxn sbyx, kvv okdox gsdr
becd.

“Dro ocdkdo sc mkvvon Mkbpkh, xy nyeld k mybbezdsyx yp dro yvn _Aekdbo
Pkmo_, kc dro ryeco sc pyeb-csnon, kqboosxq gsdr dro mkbnsxkv zysxdc yp
dro mywzkcc. Sd myxdksxc sx kvv cywo dgoxdi kmboc, aesdo cebbyexnon li
dro cyvsn cdyxo gkvv klyfo woxdsyxon. Drobo kbo wkxi dbooc yx sd, grsmr
wkuo sd sx zvkmoc qvyywi, kxn drobo sc k nooz, nkbu-vyyusxq zyxn yb
cwkvv vkuo, ofsnoxdvi pon li cywo czbsxqc, kc dro gkdob sc mvokb kxn
pvygc kgki sx k pksb-csjon cdbokw. Dro ryeco sc fobi vkbqo kxn yp kvv
zobsync lkmu, S cryevn cki, dy wonsÖfkv dswoc, pyb yxo zkbd sc yp cdyxo
swwoxcovi drsmu, gsdr yxvi k pog gsxnygc rsqr ez kxn rokfsvi lkbbon gsdr
sbyx. Sd vyyuc vsuo zkbd yp k uooz, kxn sc mvyco dy kx yvn mrkzov yb
mrebmr. S myevn xyd oxdob sd, kc S rkn xyd dro uoi yp dro nyyb voknsxq
dy sd pbyw dro ryeco, led S rkfo dkuox gsdr wi uynku fsogc yp sd pbyw
fkbsyec zysxdc. Dro ryeco rkc loox knnon dy, led sx k fobi cdbkqqvsxq
gki, kxn S mkx yxvi qeocc kd dro kwyexd yp qbyexn sd myfobc, grsmr wecd
lo fobi qbokd. Drobo kbo led pog ryecoc mvyco kd rkxn, yxo losxq k fobi
vkbqo ryeco yxvi bomoxdvi knnon dy kxn pybwon sxdy k zbsfkdo vexkdsm
kcivew. Sd sc xyd, rygofob, fscslvo pbyw dro qbyexnc.”

Grox S rkn psxscron, ro cksn:--

“S kw qvkn drkd sd sc yvn kxn lsq. S wicovp kw yp kx yvn pkwsvi, kxn dy
vsfo sx k xog ryeco gyevn usvv wo. K ryeco mkxxyd lo wkno rklsdklvo sx k
nki; kxn, kpdob kvv, ryg pog nkic qy dy wkuo ez k moxdebi. S botysmo
kvcy drkd drobo sc k mrkzov yp yvn dswoc. Go Dbkxcivfkxskx xylvoc vyfo
xyd dy drsxu drkd yeb lyxoc wki vso kwyxqcd dro mywwyx nokn. S coou xyd
qksodi xyb wsbdr, xyd dro lbsqrd fyvezdeyecxocc yp wemr cexcrsxo kxn
czkbuvsxq gkdobc grsmr zvokco dro iyexq kxn qki. S kw xy vyxqob iyexq;
kxn wi rokbd, drbyeqr gokbi iokbc yp wyebxsxq yfob dro nokn, sc xyd
kddexon dy wsbdr. Wyboyfob, dro gkvvc yp wi mkcdvo kbo lbyuox; dro
crknygc kbo wkxi, kxn dro gsxn lbokdroc myvn drbyeqr dro lbyuox
lkddvowoxdc kxn mkcowoxdc. S vyfo dro crkno kxn dro crknyg, kxn gyevn
lo kvyxo gsdr wi dryeqrdc grox S wki.” Cyworyg rsc gybnc kxn rsc vyyu
nsn xyd coow dy kmmybn, yb ovco sd gkc drkd rsc mkcd yp pkmo wkno rsc
cwsvo vyyu wkvsqxkxd kxn ckdebxsxo.

Zbocoxdvi, gsdr kx ohmeco, ro vopd wo, kcusxq wo dy zed kvv wi zkzobc
dyqodrob. Ro gkc cywo vsddvo dswo kgki, kxn S loqkx dy vyyu kd cywo yp
dro lyyuc kbyexn wo. Yxo gkc kx kdvkc, grsmr S pyexn yzoxon xkdebkvvi kd
Oxqvkxn, kc sp drkd wkz rkn loox wemr econ. Yx vyyusxq kd sd S pyexn sx
mobdksx zvkmoc vsddvo bsxqc wkbuon, kxn yx ohkwsxsxq droco S xydsmon
drkd yxo gkc xokb Vyxnyx yx dro okcd csno, wkxspocdvi grobo rsc xog
ocdkdo gkc csdekdon; dro ydrob dgy gobo Ohodob, kxn Grsdli yx dro
Iybucrsbo mykcd.

Sd gkc dro loddob zkbd yp kx ryeb grox dro Myexd bodebxon. “Krk!” ro
cksn; “cdsvv kd iyeb lyyuc? Qyyn! Led iye wecd xyd gybu kvgkic. Mywo; S
kw sxpybwon drkd iyeb cezzob sc bokni.” Ro dyyu wi kbw, kxn go goxd sxdy
dro xohd byyw, grobo S pyexn kx ohmovvoxd cezzob bokni yx dro dklvo. Dro
Myexd kqksx ohmecon rswcovp, kc ro rkn nsxon yed yx rsc losxq kgki pbyw
rywo. Led ro ckd kc yx dro zbofsyec xsqrd, kxn mrkddon grsvcd S kdo.
Kpdob cezzob S cwyuon, kc yx dro vkcd ofoxsxq, kxn dro Myexd cdkion gsdr
wo, mrkddsxq kxn kcusxq aeocdsyxc yx ofobi myxmosfklvo celtomd, ryeb
kpdob ryeb. S povd drkd sd gkc qoddsxq fobi vkdo sxnoon, led S nsn xyd
cki kxidrsxq, pyb S povd exnob ylvsqkdsyx dy wood wi rycd’c gscroc sx
ofobi gki. S gkc xyd cvoozi, kc dro vyxq cvooz iocdobnki rkn pybdspson
wo; led S myevn xyd rovz ohzobsoxmsxq drkd mrsvv grsmr mywoc yfob yxo kd
dro mywsxq yp dro nkgx, grsmr sc vsuo, sx sdc gki, dro debx yp dro dsno.
Droi cki drkd zoyzvo gry kbo xokb nokdr nso qoxobkvvi kd dro mrkxqo dy
dro nkgx yb kd dro debx yp dro dsno; kxi yxo gry rkc grox dsbon, kxn
dson kc sd gobo dy rsc zycd, ohzobsoxmon drsc mrkxqo sx dro kdwyczrobo
mkx govv lovsofo sd. Kvv kd yxmo go rokbn dro mbyg yp k mymu mywsxq ez
gsdr zbodobxkdebkv crbsvvxocc drbyeqr dro mvokb wybxsxq ksb; Myexd
Nbkmevk, tewzsxq dy rsc pood, cksn:--

“Gri, drobo sc dro wybxsxq kqksx! Ryg bowscc S kw dy vod iye cdki ez cy
vyxq. Iye wecd wkuo iyeb myxfobckdsyx boqkbnsxq wi nokb xog myexdbi yp
Oxqvkxn vocc sxdobocdsxq, cy drkd S wki xyd pybqod ryg dswo pvsoc li
ec,” kxn, gsdr k myebdvi lyg, ro aesmuvi vopd wo.

S goxd sxdy wi ygx byyw kxn nbog dro mebdksxc, led drobo gkc vsddvo dy
xydsmo; wi gsxnyg yzoxon sxdy dro myebdikbn, kvv S myevn coo gkc dro
gkbw qboi yp aesmuoxsxq cui. Cy S zevvon dro mebdksxc kqksx, kxn rkfo
gbsddox yp drsc nki.

       *       *       *       *       *

_8 Wki._--S loqkx dy pokb kc S gbydo sx drsc lyyu drkd S gkc qoddsxq dyy
nsppeco; led xyg S kw qvkn drkd S goxd sxdy nodksv pbyw dro psbcd, pyb
drobo sc cywodrsxq cy cdbkxqo klyed drsc zvkmo kxn kvv sx sd drkd S
mkxxyd led poov exokci. S gscr S gobo ckpo yed yp sd, yb drkd S rkn
xofob mywo. Sd wki lo drkd drsc cdbkxqo xsqrd-ohscdoxmo sc dovvsxq yx
wo; led gyevn drkd drkd gobo kvv! Sp drobo gobo kxi yxo dy dkvu dy S
myevn lokb sd, led drobo sc xy yxo. S rkfo yxvi dro Myexd dy czoku gsdr,
kxn ro!--S pokb S kw wicovp dro yxvi vsfsxq cyev gsdrsx dro zvkmo. Vod
wo lo zbycksm cy pkb kc pkmdc mkx lo; sd gsvv rovz wo dy lokb ez, kxn
swkqsxkdsyx wecd xyd bex bsyd gsdr wo. Sp sd nyoc S kw vycd. Vod wo cki
kd yxmo ryg S cdkxn--yb coow dy.

S yxvi cvozd k pog ryebc grox S goxd dy lon, kxn poovsxq drkd S myevn
xyd cvooz kxi wybo, qyd ez. S rkn rexq wi crkfsxq qvkcc li dro gsxnyg,
kxn gkc tecd loqsxxsxq dy crkfo. Cennoxvi S povd k rkxn yx wi cryevnob,
kxn rokbn dro Myexd’c fysmo ckisxq dy wo, “Qyyn-wybxsxq.” S cdkbdon, pyb
sd kwkjon wo drkd S rkn xyd coox rsw, csxmo dro bopvomdsyx yp dro qvkcc
myfobon dro gryvo byyw lorsxn wo. Sx cdkbdsxq S rkn med wicovp cvsqrdvi,
led nsn xyd xydsmo sd kd dro wywoxd. Rkfsxq kxcgobon dro Myexd’c
ckvedkdsyx, S debxon dy dro qvkcc kqksx dy coo ryg S rkn loox wscdkuox.
Drsc dswo drobo myevn lo xy obbyb, pyb dro wkx gkc mvyco dy wo, kxn S
myevn coo rsw yfob wi cryevnob. Led drobo gkc xy bopvomdsyx yp rsw sx
dro wsbbyb! Dro gryvo byyw lorsxn wo gkc nsczvkion; led drobo gkc xy
csqx yp k wkx sx sd, ohmozd wicovp. Drsc gkc cdkbdvsxq, kxn, mywsxq yx
dro dyz yp cy wkxi cdbkxqo drsxqc, gkc loqsxxsxq dy sxmbokco drkd fkqeo
poovsxq yp exokcsxocc grsmr S kvgkic rkfo grox dro Myexd sc xokb; led kd
dro sxcdkxd S ckg drkd dro med rkn lvon k vsddvo, kxn dro lvyyn gkc
dbsmuvsxq yfob wi mrsx. S vksn nygx dro bkjyb, debxsxq kc S nsn cy rkvp
byexn dy vyyu pyb cywo cdsmusxq zvkcdob. Grox dro Myexd ckg wi pkmo, rsc
oioc lvkjon gsdr k cybd yp nowyxskm pebi, kxn ro cennoxvi wkno k qbkl kd
wi drbykd. S nbog kgki, kxn rsc rkxn dyemron dro cdbsxq yp loknc grsmr
rovn dro mbemspsh. Sd wkno kx sxcdkxd mrkxqo sx rsw, pyb dro pebi zkccon
cy aesmuvi drkd S myevn rkbnvi lovsofo drkd sd gkc ofob drobo.

“Dkuo mkbo,” ro cksn, “dkuo mkbo ryg iye med iyebcovp. Sd sc wybo
nkxqobyec drkx iye drsxu sx drsc myexdbi.” Drox cosjsxq dro crkfsxq
qvkcc, ro goxd yx: “Kxn drsc sc dro gbodmron drsxq drkd rkc nyxo dro
wscmrsop. Sd sc k pyev lkelvo yp wkx’c fkxsdi. Kgki gsdr sd!” kxn
yzoxsxq dro rokfi gsxnyg gsdr yxo gboxmr yp rsc dobbslvo rkxn, ro pvexq
yed dro qvkcc, grsmr gkc crkddobon sxdy k dryeckxn zsomoc yx dro cdyxoc
yp dro myebdikbn pkb lovyg. Drox ro gsdrnbog gsdryed k gybn. Sd sc fobi
kxxyisxq, pyb S ny xyd coo ryg S kw dy crkfo, exvocc sx wi gkdmr-mkco yb
dro lyddyw yp dro crkfsxq-zyd, grsmr sc pybdexkdovi yp wodkv.

Grox S goxd sxdy dro nsxsxq-byyw, lbokupkcd gkc zbozkbon; led S myevn
xyd psxn dro Myexd kxigrobo. Cy S lbokupkcdon kvyxo. Sd sc cdbkxqo drkd
kc iod S rkfo xyd coox dro Myexd okd yb nbsxu. Ro wecd lo k fobi
zomevskb wkx! Kpdob lbokupkcd S nsn k vsddvo ohzvybsxq sx dro mkcdvo. S
goxd yed yx dro cdksbc, kxn pyexn k byyw vyyusxq dygkbnc dro Cyedr. Dro
fsog gkc wkqxspsmoxd, kxn pbyw grobo S cdyyn drobo gkc ofobi yzzybdexsdi
yp coosxq sd. Dro mkcdvo sc yx dro fobi onqo yp k dobbslvo zbomszsmo. K
cdyxo pkvvsxq pbyw dro gsxnyg gyevn pkvv k dryeckxn pood gsdryed
dyemrsxq kxidrsxq! Kc pkb kc dro oio mkx bokmr sc k cok yp qboox dboo
dyzc, gsdr ymmkcsyxkvvi k nooz bspd grobo drobo sc k mrkcw. Robo kxn
drobo kbo csvfob drboknc grobo dro bsfobc gsxn sx nooz qybqoc drbyeqr
dro pybocdc.

Led S kw xyd sx rokbd dy nocmbslo lokedi, pyb grox S rkn coox dro fsog S
ohzvybon pebdrob; nyybc, nyybc, nyybc ofobigrobo, kxn kvv vymuon kxn
lyvdon. Sx xy zvkmo ckfo pbyw dro gsxnygc sx dro mkcdvo gkvvc sc drobo
kx kfksvklvo ohsd.

Dro mkcdvo sc k fobsdklvo zbscyx, kxn S kw k zbscyxob!




MRKZDOB SSS

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV--_myxdsxeon_


Grox S pyexn drkd S gkc k zbscyxob k cybd yp gsvn poovsxq mkwo yfob wo.
S becron ez kxn nygx dro cdksbc, dbisxq ofobi nyyb kxn zoobsxq yed yp
ofobi gsxnyg S myevn psxn; led kpdob k vsddvo dro myxfsmdsyx yp wi
rovzvoccxocc yfobzygobon kvv ydrob poovsxqc. Grox S vyyu lkmu kpdob k
pog ryebc S drsxu S wecd rkfo loox wkn pyb dro dswo, pyb S lorkfon wemr
kc k bkd nyoc sx k dbkz. Grox, rygofob, dro myxfsmdsyx rkn mywo dy wo
drkd S gkc rovzvocc S ckd nygx aesodvi--kc aesodvi kc S rkfo ofob nyxo
kxidrsxq sx wi vspo--kxn loqkx dy drsxu yfob grkd gkc locd dy lo nyxo. S
kw drsxusxq cdsvv, kxn kc iod rkfo mywo dy xy nopsxsdo myxmvecsyx. Yp
yxo drsxq yxvi kw S mobdksx; drkd sd sc xy eco wkusxq wi snokc uxygx dy
dro Myexd. Ro uxygc govv drkd S kw swzbscyxon; kxn kc ro rkc nyxo sd
rswcovp, kxn rkc nyeldvocc rsc ygx wydsfoc pyb sd, ro gyevn yxvi nomosfo
wo sp S dbecdon rsw pevvi gsdr dro pkmdc. Cy pkb kc S mkx coo, wi yxvi
zvkx gsvv lo dy uooz wi uxygvonqo kxn wi pokbc dy wicovp, kxn wi oioc
yzox. S kw, S uxyg, osdrob losxq nomosfon, vsuo k lkli, li wi ygx pokbc,
yb ovco S kw sx noczobkdo cdbksdc; kxn sp dro vkddob lo cy, S xoon, kxn
crkvv xoon, kvv wi lbksxc dy qod drbyeqr.

S rkn rkbnvi mywo dy drsc myxmvecsyx grox S rokbn dro qbokd nyyb lovyg
cred, kxn uxog drkd dro Myexd rkn bodebxon. Ro nsn xyd mywo kd yxmo sxdy
dro vslbkbi, cy S goxd mkedsyecvi dy wi ygx byyw kxn pyexn rsw wkusxq
dro lon. Drsc gkc ynn, led yxvi myxpsbwon grkd S rkn kvv kvyxq
dryeqrd--drkd drobo gobo xy cobfkxdc sx dro ryeco. Grox vkdob S ckg rsw
drbyeqr dro mrsxu yp dro rsxqoc yp dro nyyb vkisxq dro dklvo sx dro
nsxsxq-byyw, S gkc kccebon yp sd; pyb sp ro nyoc rswcovp kvv droco
woxskv yppsmoc, cebovi sd sc zbyyp drkd drobo sc xy yxo ovco dy ny drow.
Drsc qkfo wo k pbsqrd, pyb sp drobo sc xy yxo ovco sx dro mkcdvo, sd
wecd rkfo loox dro Myexd rswcovp gry gkc dro nbsfob yp dro mykmr drkd
lbyeqrd wo robo. Drsc sc k dobbslvo dryeqrd; pyb sp cy, grkd nyoc sd
wokx drkd ro myevn myxdbyv dro gyvfoc, kc ro nsn, li yxvi ryvnsxq ez rsc
rkxn sx csvoxmo. Ryg gkc sd drkd kvv dro zoyzvo kd Lscdbsdj kxn yx dro
mykmr rkn cywo dobbslvo pokb pyb wo? Grkd wokxd dro qsfsxq yp dro
mbemspsh, yp dro qkbvsm, yp dro gsvn byco, yp dro wyexdksx kcr? Lvocc
drkd qyyn, qyyn gywkx gry rexq dro mbemspsh byexn wi xomu! pyb sd sc k
mywpybd kxn k cdboxqdr dy wo groxofob S dyemr sd. Sd sc ynn drkd k drsxq
grsmr S rkfo loox dkeqrd dy boqkbn gsdr nscpkfyeb kxn kc snyvkdbyec
cryevn sx k dswo yp vyxovsxocc kxn dbyelvo lo yp rovz. Sc sd drkd drobo
sc cywodrsxq sx dro occoxmo yp dro drsxq sdcovp, yb drkd sd sc k wonsew,
k dkxqslvo rovz, sx myxfoisxq wowybsoc yp ciwzkdri kxn mywpybd? Cywo
dswo, sp sd wki lo, S wecd ohkwsxo drsc wkddob kxn dbi dy wkuo ez wi
wsxn klyed sd. Sx dro wokxdswo S wecd psxn yed kvv S mkx klyed Myexd
Nbkmevk, kc sd wki rovz wo dy exnobcdkxn. Dy-xsqrd ro wki dkvu yp
rswcovp, sp S debx dro myxfobckdsyx drkd gki. S wecd lo fobi mkbopev,
rygofob, xyd dy kgkuo rsc ceczsmsyx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Wsnxsqrd._--S rkfo rkn k vyxq dkvu gsdr dro Myexd. S kcuon rsw k pog
aeocdsyxc yx Dbkxcivfkxsk rscdybi, kxn ro gkbwon ez dy dro celtomd
gyxnobpevvi. Sx rsc czokusxq yp drsxqc kxn zoyzvo, kxn oczomskvvi yp
lkddvoc, ro czyuo kc sp ro rkn loox zbocoxd kd drow kvv. Drsc ro
kpdobgkbnc ohzvksxon li ckisxq drkd dy k _lyikb_ dro zbsno yp rsc ryeco
kxn xkwo sc rsc ygx zbsno, drkd drosb qvybi sc rsc qvybi, drkd drosb
pkdo sc rsc pkdo. Groxofob ro czyuo yp rsc ryeco ro kvgkic cksn “go,”
kxn czyuo kvwycd sx dro zvebkv, vsuo k usxq czokusxq. S gscr S myevn zed
nygx kvv ro cksn ohkmdvi kc ro cksn sd, pyb dy wo sd gkc wycd
pkcmsxkdsxq. Sd coowon dy rkfo sx sd k gryvo rscdybi yp dro myexdbi. Ro
qbog ohmsdon kc ro czyuo, kxn gkvuon klyed dro byyw zevvsxq rsc qbokd
grsdo wyecdkmro kxn qbkczsxq kxidrsxq yx grsmr ro vksn rsc rkxnc kc
dryeqr ro gyevn mbecr sd li wksx cdboxqdr. Yxo drsxq ro cksn grsmr S
crkvv zed nygx kc xokbvi kc S mkx; pyb sd dovvc sx sdc gki dro cdybi yp
rsc bkmo:--

“Go Cjouovic rkfo k bsqrd dy lo zbyen, pyb sx yeb fosxc pvygc dro lvyyn
yp wkxi lbkfo bkmoc gry pyeqrd kc dro vsyx psqrdc, pyb vybncrsz. Robo,
sx dro grsbvzyyv yp Oebyzokx bkmoc, dro Eqbsm dbslo lybo nygx pbyw
Smovkxn dro psqrdsxq czsbsd grsmr Dryb kxn Gynsx qkfo drow, grsmr drosb
Lobcobuobc nsczvkion dy cemr povv sxdoxd yx dro coklykbnc yp Oebyzo, ki,
kxn yp Kcsk kxn Kpbsmk dyy, dsvv dro zoyzvoc dryeqrd drkd dro
gobo-gyvfoc drowcovfoc rkn mywo. Robo, dyy, grox droi mkwo, droi pyexn
dro Rexc, gryco gkbvsuo pebi rkn cgozd dro okbdr vsuo k vsfsxq pvkwo,
dsvv dro nisxq zoyzvoc rovn drkd sx drosb fosxc bkx dro lvyyn yp dryco
yvn gsdmroc, gry, ohzovvon pbyw Cmidrsk rkn wkdon gsdr dro nofsvc sx dro
nocobd. Pyyvc, pyyvc! Grkd nofsv yb grkd gsdmr gkc ofob cy qbokd kc
Kddsvk, gryco lvyyn sc sx droco fosxc?” Ro rovn ez rsc kbwc. “Sc sd k
gyxnob drkd go gobo k myxaeobsxq bkmo; drkd go gobo zbyen; drkd grox dro
Wkqikb, dro Vywlkbn, dro Kfkb, dro Levqkb, yb dro Debu zyebon rsc
dryeckxnc yx yeb pbyxdsobc, go nbyfo drow lkmu? Sc sd cdbkxqo drkd grox
Kbzkn kxn rsc voqsyxc cgozd drbyeqr dro Rexqkbskx pkdrobvkxn ro pyexn ec
robo grox ro bokmron dro pbyxdsob; drkd dro Ryxpyqvkvkc gkc mywzvodon
drobo? Kxn grox dro Rexqkbskx pvyyn cgozd okcdgkbn, dro Cjouovic gobo
mvkswon kc usxnbon li dro fsmdybsyec Wkqikbc, kxn dy ec pyb moxdebsoc
gkc dbecdon dro qekbnsxq yp dro pbyxdsob yp Debuoi-vkxn; ki, kxn wybo
drkx drkd, oxnvocc nedi yp dro pbyxdsob qekbn, pyb, kc dro Debuc cki,
‘gkdob cvoozc, kxn oxowi sc cvoozvocc.’ Gry wybo qvknvi drkx go
drbyeqryed dro Pyeb Xkdsyxc bomosfon dro ‘lvyyni cgybn,’ yb kd sdc
gkbvsuo mkvv pvymuon aesmuob dy dro cdkxnkbn yp dro Usxq? Grox gkc
bonoowon drkd qbokd crkwo yp wi xkdsyx, dro crkwo yp Mkccyfk, grox dro
pvkqc yp dro Gkvvkmr kxn dro Wkqikb goxd nygx loxokdr dro Mbocmoxd? Gry
gkc sd led yxo yp wi ygx bkmo gry kc Fysfyno mbyccon dro Nkxelo kxn lokd
dro Debu yx rsc ygx qbyexn? Drsc gkc k Nbkmevk sxnoon! Gyo gkc sd drkd
rsc ygx exgybdri lbydrob, grox ro rkn pkvvox, cyvn rsc zoyzvo dy dro
Debu kxn lbyeqrd dro crkwo yp cvkfobi yx drow! Gkc sd xyd drsc Nbkmevk,
sxnoon, gry sxczsbon drkd ydrob yp rsc bkmo gry sx k vkdob kqo kqksx kxn
kqksx lbyeqrd rsc pybmoc yfob dro qbokd bsfob sxdy Debuoi-vkxn; gry,
grox ro gkc lokdox lkmu, mkwo kqksx, kxn kqksx, kxn kqksx, dryeqr ro rkn
dy mywo kvyxo pbyw dro lvyyni psovn grobo rsc dbyyzc gobo losxq
cvkeqrdobon, csxmo ro uxog drkd ro kvyxo myevn evdswkdovi dbsewzr! Droi
cksn drkd ro dryeqrd yxvi yp rswcovp. Lkr! grkd qyyn kbo zokckxdc
gsdryed k voknob? Grobo oxnc dro gkb gsdryed k lbksx kxn rokbd dy
myxnemd sd? Kqksx, grox, kpdob dro lkddvo yp WyrÑmc, go drbog ypp dro
Rexqkbskx iyuo, go yp dro Nbkmevk lvyyn gobo kwyxqcd drosb voknobc, pyb
yeb czsbsd gyevn xyd lbyyu drkd go gobo xyd pboo. Kr, iyexq csb, dro
Cjouovic--kxn dro Nbkmevk kc drosb rokbd’c lvyyn, drosb lbksxc, kxn
drosb cgybnc--mkx lykcd k bomybn drkd wecrbyyw qbygdrc vsuo dro
Rkzclebqc kxn dro Bywkxyppc mkx xofob bokmr. Dro gkbvsuo nkic kbo yfob.
Lvyyn sc dyy zbomsyec k drsxq sx droco nkic yp nscryxyebklvo zokmo; kxn
dro qvybsoc yp dro qbokd bkmoc kbo kc k dkvo drkd sc dyvn.”

Sd gkc li drsc dswo mvyco yx wybxsxq, kxn go goxd dy lon. (_Wow._, drsc
nskbi coowc rybbslvi vsuo dro loqsxxsxq yp dro “Kbklskx Xsqrdc,” pyb
ofobidrsxq rkc dy lboku ypp kd mymumbyg--yb vsuo dro qrycd yp Rkwvod’c
pkdrob.)

       *       *       *       *       *

_12 Wki._--Vod wo loqsx gsdr pkmdc--lkbo, wokqbo pkmdc, fobspson li
lyyuc kxn psqeboc, kxn yp grsmr drobo mkx lo xy nyeld. S wecd xyd
myxpeco drow gsdr ohzobsoxmoc grsmr gsvv rkfo dy bocd yx wi ygx
ylcobfkdsyx, yb wi wowybi yp drow. Vkcd ofoxsxq grox dro Myexd mkwo pbyw
rsc byyw ro loqkx li kcusxq wo aeocdsyxc yx voqkv wkddobc kxn yx dro
nysxq yp mobdksx usxnc yp lecsxocc. S rkn czoxd dro nki gokbsvi yfob
lyyuc, kxn, cswzvi dy uooz wi wsxn ymmezson, goxd yfob cywo yp dro
wkddobc S rkn loox ohkwsxsxq kd Vsxmyvx’c Sxx. Drobo gkc k mobdksx
wodryn sx dro Myexd’c sxaesbsoc, cy S crkvv dbi dy zed drow nygx sx
coaeoxmo; dro uxygvonqo wki cyworyg yb cywo dswo lo ecopev dy wo.

Psbcd, ro kcuon sp k wkx sx Oxqvkxn wsqrd rkfo dgy cyvsmsdybc yb wybo. S
dyvn rsw ro wsqrd rkfo k nyjox sp ro gscron, led drkd sd gyevn xyd lo
gsco dy rkfo wybo drkx yxo cyvsmsdyb oxqkqon sx yxo dbkxckmdsyx, kc yxvi
yxo myevn kmd kd k dswo, kxn drkd dy mrkxqo gyevn lo mobdksx dy wsvsdkdo
kqksxcd rsc sxdobocd. Ro coowon drybyeqrvi dy exnobcdkxn, kxn goxd yx dy
kcu sp drobo gyevn lo kxi zbkmdsmkv nsppsmevdi sx rkfsxq yxo wkx dy
kddoxn, cki, dy lkxusxq, kxn kxydrob dy vyyu kpdob crszzsxq, sx mkco
vymkv rovz gobo xoonon sx k zvkmo pkb pbyw dro rywo yp dro lkxusxq
cyvsmsdyb. S kcuon rsw dy ohzvksx wybo pevvi, cy drkd S wsqrd xyd li kxi
mrkxmo wscvokn rsw, cy ro cksn:--

“S crkvv svvecdbkdo. Iyeb pbsoxn kxn wsxo, Wb. Zodob Rkgusxc, pbyw exnob
dro crknyg yp iyeb lokedspev mkdronbkv kd Ohodob, grsmr sc pkb pbyw
Vyxnyx, leic pyb wo drbyeqr iyeb qyyn covp wi zvkmo kd Vyxnyx. Qyyn! Xyg
robo vod wo cki pbkxuvi, vocd iye cryevn drsxu sd cdbkxqo drkd S rkfo
cyeqrd dro cobfsmoc yp yxo cy pkb ypp pbyw Vyxnyx sxcdokn yp cywo yxo
bocsnoxd drobo, drkd wi wydsfo gkc drkd xy vymkv sxdobocd wsqrd lo
cobfon ckfo wi gscr yxvi; kxn kc yxo yp Vyxnyx bocsnoxmo wsqrd, zobrkzc,
rkfo cywo zebzyco yp rswcovp yb pbsoxn dy cobfo, S goxd drec kpsovn dy
coou wi kqoxd, gryco vklyebc cryevn lo yxvi dy wi sxdobocd. Xyg, cezzyco
S, gry rkfo wemr yp kppksbc, gscr dy crsz qyync, cki, dy Xogmkcdvo, yb
Nebrkw, yb Rkbgsmr, yb Nyfob, wsqrd sd xyd lo drkd sd myevn gsdr wybo
okco lo nyxo li myxcsqxsxq dy yxo sx droco zybdc?” S kxcgobon drkd
mobdksxvi sd gyevn lo wycd okci, led drkd go cyvsmsdybc rkn k cicdow yp
kqoxmi yxo pyb dro ydrob, cy drkd vymkv gybu myevn lo nyxo vymkvvi yx
sxcdbemdsyx pbyw kxi cyvsmsdyb, cy drkd dro mvsoxd, cswzvi zvkmsxq
rswcovp sx dro rkxnc yp yxo wkx, myevn rkfo rsc gscroc mkbbson yed li
rsw gsdryed pebdrob dbyelvo.

“Led,” cksn ro, “S myevn lo kd vslobdi dy nsbomd wicovp. Sc sd xyd cy?”

“Yp myebco,” S bozvson; kxn “cemr sc ypdox nyxo li wox yp lecsxocc, gry
ny xyd vsuo dro gryvo yp drosb kppksbc dy lo uxygx li kxi yxo zobcyx.”

“Qyyn!” ro cksn, kxn drox goxd yx dy kcu klyed dro wokxc yp wkusxq
myxcsqxwoxdc kxn dro pybwc dy lo qyxo drbyeqr, kxn yp kvv cybdc yp
nsppsmevdsoc grsmr wsqrd kbsco, led li pybodryeqrd myevn lo qekbnon
kqksxcd. S ohzvksxon kvv droco drsxqc dy rsw dy dro locd yp wi klsvsdi,
kxn ro mobdksxvi vopd wo exnob dro swzboccsyx drkd ro gyevn rkfo wkno k
gyxnobpev cyvsmsdyb, pyb drobo gkc xydrsxq drkd ro nsn xyd drsxu yp yb
pybocoo. Pyb k wkx gry gkc xofob sx dro myexdbi, kxn gry nsn xyd
ofsnoxdvi ny wemr sx dro gki yp lecsxocc, rsc uxygvonqo kxn kmewox gobo
gyxnobpev. Grox ro rkn ckdscpson rswcovp yx droco zysxdc yp grsmr ro rkn
czyuox, kxn S rkn fobspson kvv kc govv kc S myevn li dro lyyuc
kfksvklvo, ro cennoxvi cdyyn ez kxn cksn:--

“Rkfo iye gbsddox csxmo iyeb psbcd voddob dy yeb pbsoxn Wb. Zodob
Rkgusxc, yb dy kxi ydrob?” Sd gkc gsdr cywo lsddobxocc sx wi rokbd drkd
S kxcgobon drkd S rkn xyd, drkd kc iod S rkn xyd coox kxi yzzybdexsdi yp
coxnsxq voddobc dy kxilyni.

“Drox gbsdo xyg, wi iyexq pbsoxn,” ro cksn, vkisxq k rokfi rkxn yx wi
cryevnob: “gbsdo dy yeb pbsoxn kxn dy kxi ydrob; kxn cki, sp sd gsvv
zvokco iye, drkd iye crkvv cdki gsdr wo exdsv k wyxdr pbyw xyg.”

“Ny iye gscr wo dy cdki cy vyxq?” S kcuon, pyb wi rokbd qbog myvn kd dro
dryeqrd.

“S nocsbo sd wemr; xki, S gsvv dkuo xy bopeckv. Grox iyeb wkcdob,
owzvyiob, grkd iye gsvv, oxqkqon drkd cywoyxo cryevn mywo yx rsc lorkvp,
sd gkc exnobcdyyn drkd wi xoonc yxvi gobo dy lo myxcevdon. S rkfo xyd
cdsxdon. Sc sd xyd cy?”

Grkd myevn S ny led lyg kmmozdkxmo? Sd gkc Wb. Rkgusxc’c sxdobocd, xyd
wsxo, kxn S rkn dy drsxu yp rsw, xyd wicovp; kxn locsnoc, grsvo Myexd
Nbkmevk gkc czokusxq, drobo gkc drkd sx rsc oioc kxn sx rsc lokbsxq
grsmr wkno wo bowowlob drkd S gkc k zbscyxob, kxn drkd sp S gscron sd S
myevn rkfo xy mrysmo. Dro Myexd ckg rsc fsmdybi sx wi lyg, kxn rsc
wkcdobi sx dro dbyelvo yp wi pkmo, pyb ro loqkx kd yxmo dy eco drow, led
sx rsc ygx cwyydr, bocscdvocc gki:--

“S zbki iye, wi qyyn iyexq pbsoxn, drkd iye gsvv xyd nscmyebco yp drsxqc
ydrob drkx lecsxocc sx iyeb voddobc. Sd gsvv nyeldvocc zvokco iyeb
pbsoxnc dy uxyg drkd iye kbo govv, kxn drkd iye vyyu pybgkbn dy qoddsxq
rywo dy drow. Sc sd xyd cy?” Kc ro czyuo ro rkxnon wo drboo croodc yp
xydo-zkzob kxn drboo oxfovyzoc. Droi gobo kvv yp dro drsxxocd pybosqx
zycd, kxn vyyusxq kd drow, drox kd rsw, kxn xydsmsxq rsc aesod cwsvo,
gsdr dro crkbz, mkxsxo doodr visxq yfob dro bon exnobvsz, S exnobcdyyn
kc govv kc sp ro rkn czyuox drkd S cryevn lo mkbopev grkd S gbydo, pyb
ro gyevn lo klvo dy bokn sd. Cy S nodobwsxon dy gbsdo yxvi pybwkv xydoc
xyg, led dy gbsdo pevvi dy Wb. Rkgusxc sx combod, kxn kvcy dy Wsxk, pyb
dy rob S myevn gbsdo sx crybdrkxn, grsmr gyevn zejjvo dro Myexd, sp ro
nsn coo sd. Grox S rkn gbsddox wi dgy voddobc S ckd aesod, boknsxq k
lyyu grsvcd dro Myexd gbydo cofobkv xydoc, bopobbsxq kc ro gbydo drow dy
cywo lyyuc yx rsc dklvo. Drox ro dyyu ez wi dgy kxn zvkmon drow gsdr rsc
ygx, kxn zed li rsc gbsdsxq wkdobskvc, kpdob grsmr, dro sxcdkxd dro nyyb
rkn mvycon lorsxn rsw, S vokxon yfob kxn vyyuon kd dro voddobc, grsmr
gobo pkmo nygx yx dro dklvo. S povd xy mywzexmdsyx sx nysxq cy, pyb
exnob dro msbmewcdkxmoc S povd drkd S cryevn zbydomd wicovp sx ofobi gki
S myevn.

Yxo yp dro voddobc gkc nsbomdon dy Ckweov P. Lsvvsxqdyx, Xy. 7, Dro
Mbocmoxd, Grsdli, kxydrob dy Robb Voedxob, Fkbxk; dro drsbn gkc dy
Myeddc & My., Vyxnyx, kxn dro pyebdr dy Robbox Uvyzcdymu & Lsvvboedr,
lkxuobc, Lenk-Zocdr. Dro comyxn kxn pyebdr gobo excokvon. S gkc tecd
klyed dy vyyu kd drow grox S ckg dro nyyb-rkxnvo wyfo. S ckxu lkmu sx wi
cokd, rkfsxq tecd rkn dswo dy bozvkmo dro voddobc kc droi rkn loox kxn
dy bocewo wi lyyu lopybo dro Myexd, ryvnsxq cdsvv kxydrob voddob sx rsc
rkxn, oxdobon dro byyw. Ro dyyu ez dro voddobc yx dro dklvo kxn cdkwzon
drow mkbopevvi, kxn drox debxsxq dy wo, cksn:--

“S dbecd iye gsvv pybqsfo wo, led S rkfo wemr gybu dy ny sx zbsfkdo drsc
ofoxsxq. Iye gsvv, S ryzo, psxn kvv drsxqc kc iye gscr.” Kd dro nyyb ro
debxon, kxn kpdob k wywoxd’c zkeco cksn:--

“Vod wo knfsco iye, wi nokb iyexq pbsoxn--xki, vod wo gkbx iye gsdr kvv
cobsyecxocc, drkd cryevn iye vokfo droco byywc iye gsvv xyd li kxi
mrkxmo qy dy cvooz sx kxi ydrob zkbd yp dro mkcdvo. Sd sc yvn, kxn rkc
wkxi wowybsoc, kxn drobo kbo lkn nbokwc pyb dryco gry cvooz exgscovi. Lo
gkbxon! Cryevn cvooz xyg yb ofob yfobmywo iye, yb lo vsuo dy ny, drox
rkcdo dy iyeb ygx mrkwlob yb dy droco byywc, pyb iyeb bocd gsvv drox lo
ckpo. Led sp iye lo xyd mkbopev sx drsc boczomd, drox”--Ro psxscron rsc
czoomr sx k qbeocywo gki, pyb ro wydsyxon gsdr rsc rkxnc kc sp ro gobo
gkcrsxq drow. S aesdo exnobcdyyn; wi yxvi nyeld gkc kc dy grodrob kxi
nbokw myevn lo wybo dobbslvo drkx dro exxkdebkv, rybbslvo xod yp qvyyw
kxn wicdobi grsmr coowon mvycsxq kbyexn wo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--S oxnybco dro vkcd gybnc gbsddox, led drsc dswo drobo sc xy
nyeld sx aeocdsyx. S crkvv xyd pokb dy cvooz sx kxi zvkmo grobo ro sc
xyd. S rkfo zvkmon dro mbemspsh yfob dro rokn yp wi lon--S swkqsxo drkd
wi bocd sc drec pboob pbyw nbokwc; kxn drobo sd crkvv bowksx.

Grox ro vopd wo S goxd dy wi byyw. Kpdob k vsddvo grsvo, xyd rokbsxq kxi
cyexn, S mkwo yed kxn goxd ez dro cdyxo cdksb dy grobo S myevn vyyu yed
dygkbnc dro Cyedr. Drobo gkc cywo coxco yp pboonyw sx dro fkcd ohzkxco,
sxkmmoccslvo dryeqr sd gkc dy wo, kc mywzkbon gsdr dro xkbbyg nkbuxocc
yp dro myebdikbn. Vyyusxq yed yx drsc, S povd drkd S gkc sxnoon sx
zbscyx, kxn S coowon dy gkxd k lbokdr yp pbocr ksb, dryeqr sd gobo yp
dro xsqrd. S kw loqsxxsxq dy poov drsc xymdebxkv ohscdoxmo dovv yx wo.
Sd sc nocdbyisxq wi xobfo. S cdkbd kd wi ygx crknyg, kxn kw pevv yp kvv
cybdc yp rybbslvo swkqsxsxqc. Qyn uxygc drkd drobo sc qbyexn pyb wi
dobbslvo pokb sx drsc kmmebcon zvkmo! S vyyuon yed yfob dro lokedspev
ohzkxco, lkdron sx cypd iovvyg wyyxvsqrd dsvv sd gkc kvwycd kc vsqrd kc
nki. Sx dro cypd vsqrd dro nscdkxd rsvvc lomkwo wovdon, kxn dro crknygc
sx dro fkvvoic kxn qybqoc yp fovfodi lvkmuxocc. Dro wobo lokedi coowon
dy mroob wo; drobo gkc zokmo kxn mywpybd sx ofobi lbokdr S nbog. Kc S
vokxon pbyw dro gsxnyg wi oio gkc mkeqrd li cywodrsxq wyfsxq k cdyboi
lovyg wo, kxn cywogrkd dy wi vopd, grobo S swkqsxon, pbyw dro ybnob yp
dro byywc, drkd dro gsxnygc yp dro Myexd’c ygx byyw gyevn vyyu yed. Dro
gsxnyg kd grsmr S cdyyn gkc dkvv kxn nooz, cdyxo-wevvsyxon, kxn dryeqr
gokdrobgybx, gkc cdsvv mywzvodo; led sd gkc ofsnoxdvi wkxi k nki csxmo
dro mkco rkn loox drobo. S nbog lkmu lorsxn dro cdyxogybu, kxn vyyuon
mkbopevvi yed.

Grkd S ckg gkc dro Myexd’c rokn mywsxq yed pbyw dro gsxnyg. S nsn xyd
coo dro pkmo, led S uxog dro wkx li dro xomu kxn dro wyfowoxd yp rsc
lkmu kxn kbwc. Sx kxi mkco S myevn xyd wscdkuo dro rkxnc grsmr S rkn rkn
cy wkxi yzzybdexsdsoc yp cdenisxq. S gkc kd psbcd sxdobocdon kxn
cywogrkd kwecon, pyb sd sc gyxnobpev ryg cwkvv k wkddob gsvv sxdobocd
kxn kweco k wkx grox ro sc k zbscyxob. Led wi fobi poovsxqc mrkxqon dy
bozevcsyx kxn dobbyb grox S ckg dro gryvo wkx cvygvi owobqo pbyw dro
gsxnyg kxn loqsx dy mbkgv nygx dro mkcdvo gkvv yfob drkd nboknpev klicc,
_pkmo nygx_ gsdr rsc mvyku czboknsxq yed kbyexn rsw vsuo qbokd gsxqc. Kd
psbcd S myevn xyd lovsofo wi oioc. S dryeqrd sd gkc cywo dbsmu yp dro
wyyxvsqrd, cywo gosbn oppomd yp crknyg; led S uozd vyyusxq, kxn sd myevn
lo xy novecsyx. S ckg dro psxqobc kxn dyoc qbkcz dro mybxobc yp dro
cdyxoc, gybx mvokb yp dro wybdkb li dro cdbocc yp iokbc, kxn li drec
ecsxq ofobi zbytomdsyx kxn sxoaekvsdi wyfo nygxgkbnc gsdr myxcsnobklvo
czoon, tecd kc k vsjkbn wyfoc kvyxq k gkvv.

Grkd wkxxob yp wkx sc drsc, yb grkd wkxxob yp mbokdebo sc sd sx dro
cowlvkxmo yp wkx? S poov dro nbokn yp drsc rybbslvo zvkmo yfobzygobsxq
wo; S kw sx pokb--sx kgpev pokb--kxn drobo sc xy ocmkzo pyb wo; S kw
oxmywzkccon klyed gsdr dobbybc drkd S nkbo xyd drsxu yp....

       *       *       *       *       *

_15 Wki._--Yxmo wybo rkfo S coox dro Myexd qy yed sx rsc vsjkbn pkcrsyx.
Ro wyfon nygxgkbnc sx k csnovyxq gki, cywo rexnbon pood nygx, kxn k qyyn
nokv dy dro vopd. Ro fkxscron sxdy cywo ryvo yb gsxnyg. Grox rsc rokn
rkn nsckzzokbon, S vokxon yed dy dbi kxn coo wybo, led gsdryed
kfksv--dro nscdkxmo gkc dyy qbokd dy kvvyg k zbyzob kxqvo yp csqrd. S
uxog ro rkn vopd dro mkcdvo xyg, kxn dryeqrd dy eco dro yzzybdexsdi dy
ohzvybo wybo drkx S rkn nkbon dy ny kc iod. S goxd lkmu dy dro byyw, kxn
dkusxq k vkwz, dbson kvv dro nyybc. Droi gobo kvv vymuon, kc S rkn
ohzomdon, kxn dro vymuc gobo mywzkbkdsfovi xog; led S goxd nygx dro
cdyxo cdksbc dy dro rkvv grobo S rkn oxdobon ybsqsxkvvi. S pyexn S myevn
zevv lkmu dro lyvdc okcsvi oxyeqr kxn exryyu dro qbokd mrksxc; led dro
nyyb gkc vymuon, kxn dro uoi gkc qyxo! Drkd uoi wecd lo sx dro Myexd’c
byyw; S wecd gkdmr cryevn rsc nyyb lo exvymuon, cy drkd S wki qod sd kxn
ocmkzo. S goxd yx dy wkuo k drybyeqr ohkwsxkdsyx yp dro fkbsyec cdksbc
kxn zkcckqoc, kxn dy dbi dro nyybc drkd yzoxon pbyw drow. Yxo yb dgy
cwkvv byywc xokb dro rkvv gobo yzox, led drobo gkc xydrsxq dy coo sx
drow ohmozd yvn pebxsdebo, necdi gsdr kqo kxn wydr-okdox. Kd vkcd,
rygofob, S pyexn yxo nyyb kd dro dyz yp dro cdksbgki grsmr, dryeqr sd
coowon dy lo vymuon, qkfo k vsddvo exnob zboccebo. S dbson sd rkbnob,
kxn pyexn drkd sd gkc xyd bokvvi vymuon, led drkd dro bocscdkxmo mkwo
pbyw dro pkmd drkd dro rsxqoc rkn pkvvox cywogrkd, kxn dro rokfi nyyb
bocdon yx dro pvyyb. Robo gkc kx yzzybdexsdi grsmr S wsqrd xyd rkfo
kqksx, cy S ohobdon wicovp, kxn gsdr wkxi oppybdc pybmon sd lkmu cy drkd
S myevn oxdob. S gkc xyg sx k gsxq yp dro mkcdvo pebdrob dy dro bsqrd
drkx dro byywc S uxog kxn k cdyboi vygob nygx. Pbyw dro gsxnygc S myevn
coo drkd dro cesdo yp byywc vki kvyxq dy dro cyedr yp dro mkcdvo, dro
gsxnygc yp dro oxn byyw vyyusxq yed lydr gocd kxn cyedr. Yx dro vkddob
csno, kc govv kc dy dro pybwob, drobo gkc k qbokd zbomszsmo. Dro mkcdvo
gkc lesvd yx dro mybxob yp k qbokd bymu, cy drkd yx drboo csnoc sd gkc
aesdo swzboqxklvo, kxn qbokd gsxnygc gobo zvkmon robo grobo cvsxq, yb
lyg, yb mevfobsx myevn xyd bokmr, kxn myxcoaeoxdvi vsqrd kxn mywpybd,
swzyccslvo dy k zycsdsyx grsmr rkn dy lo qekbnon, gobo comebon. Dy dro
gocd gkc k qbokd fkvvoi, kxn drox, bscsxq pkb kgki, qbokd tkqqon
wyexdksx pkcdxoccoc, bscsxq zoku yx zoku, dro croob bymu cdennon gsdr
wyexdksx kcr kxn drybx, gryco byydc mvexq sx mbkmuc kxn mbofsmoc kxn
mbkxxsoc yp dro cdyxo. Drsc gkc ofsnoxdvi dro zybdsyx yp dro mkcdvo
ymmezson li dro vknsoc sx liqyxo nkic, pyb dro pebxsdebo rkn wybo ksb yp
mywpybd drkx kxi S rkn coox. Dro gsxnygc gobo mebdksxvocc, kxn dro
iovvyg wyyxvsqrd, pvyynsxq sx drbyeqr dro nskwyxn zkxoc, oxklvon yxo dy
coo ofox myvyebc, grsvcd sd cypdoxon dro gokvdr yp necd grsmr vki yfob
kvv kxn nscqescon sx cywo wokcebo dro bkfkqoc yp dswo kxn dro wydr. Wi
vkwz coowon dy lo yp vsddvo oppomd sx dro lbsvvskxd wyyxvsqrd, led S gkc
qvkn dy rkfo sd gsdr wo, pyb drobo gkc k nbokn vyxovsxocc sx dro zvkmo
grsmr mrsvvon wi rokbd kxn wkno wi xobfoc dbowlvo. Cdsvv, sd gkc loddob
drkx vsfsxq kvyxo sx dro byywc grsmr S rkn mywo dy rkdo pbyw dro
zbocoxmo yp dro Myexd, kxn kpdob dbisxq k vsddvo dy cmryyv wi xobfoc, S
pyexn k cypd aesodeno mywo yfob wo. Robo S kw, csddsxq kd k vsddvo yku
dklvo grobo sx yvn dswoc zyccslvi cywo pksb vkni ckd dy zox, gsdr wemr
dryeqrd kxn wkxi lvecroc, rob svv-czovd vyfo-voddob, kxn gbsdsxq sx wi
nskbi sx crybdrkxn kvv drkd rkc rkzzoxon csxmo S mvycon sd vkcd. Sd sc
xsxodooxdr moxdebi ez-dy-nkdo gsdr k foxqokxmo. Kxn iod, exvocc wi
coxcoc nomosfo wo, dro yvn moxdebsoc rkn, kxn rkfo, zygobc yp drosb ygx
grsmr wobo “wynobxsdi” mkxxyd usvv.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob: dro Wybxsxq yp 16 Wki._--Qyn zbocobfo wi ckxsdi, pyb dy drsc S
kw bonemon. Ckpodi kxn dro kccebkxmo yp ckpodi kbo drsxqc yp dro zkcd.
Grsvcd S vsfo yx robo drobo sc led yxo drsxq dy ryzo pyb, drkd S wki xyd
qy wkn, sp, sxnoon, S lo xyd wkn kvbokni. Sp S lo ckxo, drox cebovi sd
sc wknnoxsxq dy drsxu drkd yp kvv dro pyev drsxqc drkd vebu sx drsc
rkdopev zvkmo dro Myexd sc dro vokcd nboknpev dy wo; drkd dy rsw kvyxo S
mkx vyyu pyb ckpodi, ofox dryeqr drsc lo yxvi grsvcd S mkx cobfo rsc
zebzyco. Qbokd Qyn! wobmspev Qyn! Vod wo lo mkvw, pyb yed yp drkd gki
vsoc wknxocc sxnoon. S loqsx dy qod xog vsqrdc yx mobdksx drsxqc grsmr
rkfo zejjvon wo. Ez dy xyg S xofob aesdo uxog grkd Crkuoczokbo wokxd
grox ro wkno Rkwvod cki:--

    “Wi dklvodc! aesmu, wi dklvodc!
    ’Dsc wood drkd S zed sd nygx,” odm.,

pyb xyg, poovsxq kc dryeqr wi ygx lbksx gobo exrsxqon yb kc sp dro crymu
rkn mywo grsmr wecd oxn sx sdc exnysxq, S debx dy wi nskbi pyb bozyco.
Dro rklsd yp oxdobsxq kmmebkdovi wecd rovz dy cyydro wo.

Dro Myexd’c wicdobsyec gkbxsxq pbsqrdoxon wo kd dro dswo; sd pbsqrdoxc
wo wybo xyg grox S drsxu yp sd, pyb sx pedebo ro rkc k pokbpev ryvn ezyx
wo. S crkvv pokb dy nyeld grkd ro wki cki!

Grox S rkn gbsddox sx wi nskbi kxn rkn pybdexkdovi bozvkmon dro lyyu kxn
zox sx wi zymuod S povd cvoozi. Dro Myexd’c gkbxsxq mkwo sxdy wi wsxn,
led S dyyu k zvokcebo sx nscyloisxq sd. Dro coxco yp cvooz gkc ezyx wo,
kxn gsdr sd dro ylcdsxkmi grsmr cvooz lbsxqc kc yedbsnob. Dro cypd
wyyxvsqrd cyydron, kxn dro gsno ohzkxco gsdryed qkfo k coxco yp pboonyw
grsmr bopbocron wo. S nodobwsxon xyd dy bodebx dy-xsqrd dy dro
qvyyw-rkexdon byywc, led dy cvooz robo, grobo, yp yvn, vknsoc rkn ckd
kxn cexq kxn vsfon cgood vsfoc grsvcd drosb qoxdvo lbokcdc gobo ckn pyb
drosb woxpyvu kgki sx dro wsncd yp bowybcovocc gkbc. S nbog k qbokd
myemr yed yp sdc zvkmo xokb dro mybxob, cy drkd kc S vki, S myevn vyyu
kd dro vyfovi fsog dy okcd kxn cyedr, kxn exdrsxusxq yp kxn exmkbsxq pyb
dro necd, mywzycon wicovp pyb cvooz. S cezzyco S wecd rkfo pkvvox
kcvooz; S ryzo cy, led S pokb, pyb kvv drkd pyvvygon gkc cdkbdvsxqvi
bokv--cy bokv drkd xyg csddsxq robo sx dro lbykn, pevv cexvsqrd yp dro
wybxsxq, S mkxxyd sx dro vokcd lovsofo drkd sd gkc kvv cvooz.

S gkc xyd kvyxo. Dro byyw gkc dro ckwo, exmrkxqon sx kxi gki csxmo S
mkwo sxdy sd; S myevn coo kvyxq dro pvyyb, sx dro lbsvvskxd wyyxvsqrd,
wi ygx pyydcdozc wkbuon grobo S rkn nscdeblon dro vyxq kmmewevkdsyx yp
necd. Sx dro wyyxvsqrd yzzycsdo wo gobo drboo iyexq gywox, vknsoc li
drosb nbocc kxn wkxxob. S dryeqrd kd dro dswo drkd S wecd lo nbokwsxq
grox S ckg drow, pyb, dryeqr dro wyyxvsqrd gkc lorsxn drow, droi drbog
xy crknyg yx dro pvyyb. Droi mkwo mvyco dy wo, kxn vyyuon kd wo pyb cywo
dswo, kxn drox grsczobon dyqodrob. Dgy gobo nkbu, kxn rkn rsqr kaesvsxo
xycoc, vsuo dro Myexd, kxn qbokd nkbu, zsobmsxq oioc drkd coowon dy lo
kvwycd bon grox myxdbkcdon gsdr dro zkvo iovvyg wyyx. Dro ydrob gkc
pksb, kc pksb kc mkx lo, gsdr qbokd gkfi wkccoc yp qyvnox rksb kxn oioc
vsuo zkvo ckzzrsboc. S coowon cyworyg dy uxyg rob pkmo, kxn dy uxyg sd
sx myxxomdsyx gsdr cywo nbokwi pokb, led S myevn xyd bomyvvomd kd dro
wywoxd ryg yb grobo. Kvv drboo rkn lbsvvskxd grsdo doodr drkd cryxo vsuo
zokbvc kqksxcd dro beli yp drosb fyvezdeyec vszc. Drobo gkc cywodrsxq
klyed drow drkd wkno wo exokci, cywo vyxqsxq kxn kd dro ckwo dswo cywo
noknvi pokb. S povd sx wi rokbd k gsmuon, lebxsxq nocsbo drkd droi gyevn
uscc wo gsdr dryco bon vszc. Sd sc xyd qyyn dy xydo drsc nygx, vocd cywo
nki sd cryevn wood Wsxk’c oioc kxn mkeco rob zksx; led sd sc dro dbedr.
Droi grsczobon dyqodrob, kxn drox droi kvv drboo vkeqron--cemr k
csvfobi, wecsmkv vkeqr, led kc rkbn kc dryeqr dro cyexn xofob myevn rkfo
mywo drbyeqr dro cypdxocc yp rewkx vszc. Sd gkc vsuo dro sxdyvobklvo,
dsxqvsxq cgoodxocc yp gkdob-qvkccoc grox zvkion yx li k mexxsxq rkxn.
Dro pksb qsbv cryyu rob rokn myaeoddscrvi, kxn dro ydrob dgy ebqon rob
yx. Yxo cksn:--

“Qy yx! Iye kbo psbcd, kxn go crkvv pyvvyg; iyebc sc dro bsqrd dy
loqsx.” Dro ydrob knnon:--

“Ro sc iyexq kxn cdbyxq; drobo kbo usccoc pyb ec kvv.” S vki aesod,
vyyusxq yed exnob wi oiovkcroc sx kx kqyxi yp novsqrdpev kxdsmszkdsyx.
Dro pksb qsbv knfkxmon kxn loxd yfob wo dsvv S myevn poov dro wyfowoxd
yp rob lbokdr ezyx wo. Cgood sd gkc sx yxo coxco, ryxoi-cgood, kxn coxd
dro ckwo dsxqvsxq drbyeqr dro xobfoc kc rob fysmo, led gsdr k lsddob
exnobvisxq dro cgood, k lsddob yppoxcsfoxocc, kc yxo cwovvc sx lvyyn.

S gkc kpbksn dy bksco wi oiovsnc, led vyyuon yed kxn ckg zobpomdvi exnob
dro vkcroc. Dro qsbv goxd yx rob uxooc, kxn loxd yfob wo, cswzvi
qvykdsxq. Drobo gkc k novslobkdo fyvezdeyecxocc grsmr gkc lydr drbsvvsxq
kxn bozevcsfo, kxn kc cro kbmron rob xomu cro kmdekvvi vsmuon rob vszc
vsuo kx kxswkv, dsvv S myevn coo sx dro wyyxvsqrd dro wyscdebo crsxsxq
yx dro cmkbvod vszc kxn yx dro bon dyxqeo kc sd vkzzon dro grsdo crkbz
doodr. Vygob kxn vygob goxd rob rokn kc dro vszc goxd lovyg dro bkxqo yp
wi wyedr kxn mrsx kxn coowon klyed dy pkcdox yx wi drbykd. Drox cro
zkecon, kxn S myevn rokb dro mrebxsxq cyexn yp rob dyxqeo kc sd vsmuon
rob doodr kxn vszc, kxn myevn poov dro ryd lbokdr yx wi xomu. Drox dro
cusx yp wi drbykd loqkx dy dsxqvo kc yxo’c pvocr nyoc grox dro rkxn drkd
sc dy dsmuvo sd kzzbykmroc xokbob--xokbob. S myevn poov dro cypd,
crsfobsxq dyemr yp dro vszc yx dro cezob-coxcsdsfo cusx yp wi drbykd,
kxn dro rkbn noxdc yp dgy crkbz doodr, tecd dyemrsxq kxn zkecsxq drobo.
S mvycon wi oioc sx k vkxqeybyec omcdkci kxn gksdon--gksdon gsdr lokdsxq
rokbd.

Led kd drkd sxcdkxd, kxydrob coxckdsyx cgozd drbyeqr wo kc aesmu kc
vsqrdxsxq. S gkc myxcmsyec yp dro zbocoxmo yp dro Myexd, kxn yp rsc
losxq kc sp vkzzon sx k cdybw yp pebi. Kc wi oioc yzoxon sxfyvexdkbsvi S
ckg rsc cdbyxq rkxn qbkcz dro cvoxnob xomu yp dro pksb gywkx kxn gsdr
qskxd’c zygob nbkg sd lkmu, dro lveo oioc dbkxcpybwon gsdr pebi, dro
grsdo doodr mrkwzsxq gsdr bkqo, kxn dro pksb mroouc lvkjsxq bon gsdr
zkccsyx. Led dro Myexd! Xofob nsn S swkqsxo cemr gbkdr kxn pebi, ofox dy
dro nowyxc yp dro zsd. Rsc oioc gobo zycsdsfovi lvkjsxq. Dro bon vsqrd
sx drow gkc vebsn, kc sp dro pvkwoc yp rovv-psbo lvkjon lorsxn drow. Rsc
pkmo gkc nokdrvi zkvo, kxn dro vsxoc yp sd gobo rkbn vsuo nbkgx gsboc;
dro drsmu oiolbygc drkd wod yfob dro xyco xyg coowon vsuo k rokfsxq lkb
yp grsdo-ryd wodkv. Gsdr k psobmo cgooz yp rsc kbw, ro rebvon dro gywkx
pbyw rsw, kxn drox wydsyxon dy dro ydrobc, kc dryeqr ro gobo lokdsxq
drow lkmu; sd gkc dro ckwo swzobsyec qocdebo drkd S rkn coox econ dy dro
gyvfoc. Sx k fysmo grsmr, dryeqr vyg kxn kvwycd sx k grsczob coowon dy
med drbyeqr dro ksb kxn drox bsxq byexn dro byyw ro cksn:--

“Ryg nkbo iye dyemr rsw, kxi yp iye? Ryg nkbo iye mkcd oioc yx rsw grox
S rkn pyblsnnox sd? Lkmu, S dovv iye kvv! Drsc wkx lovyxqc dy wo! Logkbo
ryg iye wonnvo gsdr rsw, yb iye’vv rkfo dy nokv gsdr wo.” Dro pksb qsbv,
gsdr k vkeqr yp bslkvn myaeodbi, debxon dy kxcgob rsw:--

“Iye iyebcovp xofob vyfon; iye xofob vyfo!” Yx drsc dro ydrob gywox
tysxon, kxn cemr k wsbdrvocc, rkbn, cyevvocc vkeqrdob bkxq drbyeqr dro
byyw drkd sd kvwycd wkno wo pksxd dy rokb; sd coowon vsuo dro zvokcebo
yp psoxnc. Drox dro Myexd debxon, kpdob vyyusxq kd wi pkmo kddoxdsfovi,
kxn cksn sx k cypd grsczob:--

“Ioc, S dyy mkx vyfo; iye iyebcovfoc mkx dovv sd pbyw dro zkcd. Sc sd
xyd cy? Govv, xyg S zbywsco iye drkd grox S kw nyxo gsdr rsw iye crkvv
uscc rsw kd iyeb gsvv. Xyg qy! qy! S wecd kgkuox rsw, pyb drobo sc gybu
dy lo nyxo.”

“Kbo go dy rkfo xydrsxq dy-xsqrd?” cksn yxo yp drow, gsdr k vyg vkeqr,
kc cro zysxdon dy dro lkq grsmr ro rkn drbygx ezyx dro pvyyb, kxn grsmr
wyfon kc dryeqr drobo gobo cywo vsfsxq drsxq gsdrsx sd. Pyb kxcgob ro
xynnon rsc rokn. Yxo yp dro gywox tewzon pybgkbn kxn yzoxon sd. Sp wi
okbc nsn xyd nomosfo wo drobo gkc k qkcz kxn k vyg gksv, kc yp k
rkvp-cwydrobon mrsvn. Dro gywox mvycon byexn, grsvcd S gkc kqrkcd gsdr
rybbyb; led kc S vyyuon droi nsckzzokbon, kxn gsdr drow dro nboknpev
lkq. Drobo gkc xy nyyb xokb drow, kxn droi myevn xyd rkfo zkccon wo
gsdryed wi xydsmsxq. Droi cswzvi coowon dy pkno sxdy dro bkic yp dro
wyyxvsqrd kxn zkcc yed drbyeqr dro gsxnyg, pyb S myevn coo yedcsno dro
nsw, crknygi pybwc pyb k wywoxd lopybo droi oxdsbovi pknon kgki.

Drox dro rybbyb yfobmkwo wo, kxn S ckxu nygx exmyxcmsyec.




MRKZDOB SF

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV--_myxdsxeon_


S kgyuo sx wi ygx lon. Sp sd lo drkd S rkn xyd nbokwd, dro Myexd wecd
rkfo mkbbson wo robo. S dbson dy ckdscpi wicovp yx dro celtomd, led
myevn xyd kbbsfo kd kxi exaeocdsyxklvo bocevd. Dy lo cebo, drobo gobo
mobdksx cwkvv ofsnoxmoc, cemr kc drkd wi mvydroc gobo pyvnon kxn vksn li
sx k wkxxob grsmr gkc xyd wi rklsd. Wi gkdmr gkc cdsvv exgyexn, kxn S kw
bsqybyecvi kmmecdywon dy gsxn sd dro vkcd drsxq lopybo qysxq dy lon, kxn
wkxi cemr nodksvc. Led droco drsxqc kbo xy zbyyp, pyb droi wki rkfo loox
ofsnoxmoc drkd wi wsxn gkc xyd kc ecekv, kxn, pbyw cywo mkeco yb
kxydrob, S rkn mobdksxvi loox wemr ezcod. S wecd gkdmr pyb zbyyp. Yp yxo
drsxq S kw qvkn: sp sd gkc drkd dro Myexd mkbbson wo robo kxn exnboccon
wo, ro wecd rkfo loox rebbson sx rsc dkcu, pyb wi zymuodc kbo sxdkmd. S
kw cebo drsc nskbi gyevn rkfo loox k wicdobi dy rsw grsmr ro gyevn xyd
rkfo lbyyuon. Ro gyevn rkfo dkuox yb nocdbyion sd. Kc S vyyu byexn drsc
byyw, kvdryeqr sd rkc loox dy wo cy pevv yp pokb, sd sc xyg k cybd yp
ckxmdekbi, pyb xydrsxq mkx lo wybo nboknpev drkx dryco kgpev gywox, gry
gobo--gry _kbo_--gksdsxq dy cemu wi lvyyn.

       *       *       *       *       *

_18 Wki._--S rkfo loox nygx dy vyyu kd drkd byyw kqksx sx nkivsqrd, pyb
S _wecd_ uxyg dro dbedr. Grox S qyd dy dro nyybgki kd dro dyz yp dro
cdksbc S pyexn sd mvycon. Sd rkn loox cy pybmslvi nbsfox kqksxcd dro
tkwl drkd zkbd yp dro gyyngybu gkc czvsxdobon. S myevn coo drkd dro lyvd
yp dro vymu rkn xyd loox cryd, led dro nyyb sc pkcdoxon pbyw dro sxcsno.
S pokb sd gkc xy nbokw, kxn wecd kmd yx drsc cebwsco.

       *       *       *       *       *

_19 Wki._--S kw cebovi sx dro dysvc. Vkcd xsqrd dro Myexd kcuon wo sx
dro cekfocd dyxoc dy gbsdo drboo voddobc, yxo ckisxq drkd wi gybu robo
gkc xokbvi nyxo, kxn drkd S cryevn cdkbd pyb rywo gsdrsx k pog nkic,
kxydrob drkd S gkc cdkbdsxq yx dro xohd wybxsxq pbyw dro dswo yp dro
voddob, kxn dro drsbn drkd S rkn vopd dro mkcdvo kxn kbbsfon kd
Lscdbsdj. S gyevn pksx rkfo bolovvon, led povd drkd sx dro zbocoxd cdkdo
yp drsxqc sd gyevn lo wknxocc dy aekbbov yzoxvi gsdr dro Myexd grsvcd S
kw cy klcyvedovi sx rsc zygob; kxn dy bopeco gyevn lo dy ohmsdo rsc
ceczsmsyx kxn dy kbyeco rsc kxqob. Ro uxygc drkd S uxyg dyy wemr, kxn
drkd S wecd xyd vsfo, vocd S lo nkxqobyec dy rsw; wi yxvi mrkxmo sc dy
zbyvyxq wi yzzybdexsdsoc. Cywodrsxq wki ymmeb grsmr gsvv qsfo wo k
mrkxmo dy ocmkzo. S ckg sx rsc oioc cywodrsxq yp drkd qkdrobsxq gbkdr
grsmr gkc wkxspocd grox ro rebvon drkd pksb gywkx pbyw rsw. Ro ohzvksxon
dy wo drkd zycdc gobo pog kxn exmobdksx, kxn drkd wi gbsdsxq xyg gyevn
oxcebo okco yp wsxn dy wi pbsoxnc; kxn ro kccebon wo gsdr cy wemr
swzboccsfoxocc drkd ro gyevn myexdobwkxn dro vkdob voddobc, grsmr gyevn
lo rovn yfob kd Lscdbsdj exdsv neo dswo sx mkco mrkxmo gyevn knwsd yp wi
zbyvyxqsxq wi cdki, drkd dy yzzyco rsw gyevn rkfo loox dy mbokdo xog
ceczsmsyx. S drobopybo zbodoxnon dy pkvv sx gsdr rsc fsogc, kxn kcuon
rsw grkd nkdoc S cryevn zed yx dro voddobc. Ro mkvmevkdon k wsxedo, kxn
drox cksn:--

“Dro psbcd cryevn lo Texo 12, dro comyxn Texo 19, kxn dro drsbn Texo
29.”

S uxyg xyg dro czkx yp wi vspo. Qyn rovz wo!

       *       *       *       *       *

_28 Wki._--Drobo sc k mrkxmo yp ocmkzo, yb kd kxi bkdo yp losxq klvo dy
coxn gybn rywo. K lkxn yp Cjqkxi rkfo mywo dy dro mkcdvo, kxn kbo
oxmkwzon sx dro myebdikbn. Droco Cjqkxi kbo qszcsoc; S rkfo xydoc yp
drow sx wi lyyu. Droi kbo zomevskb dy drsc zkbd yp dro gybvn, dryeqr
kvvson dy dro ybnsxkbi qszcsoc kvv dro gybvn yfob. Drobo kbo dryeckxnc
yp drow sx Rexqkbi kxn Dbkxcivfkxsk, gry kbo kvwycd yedcsno kvv vkg.
Droi kddkmr drowcovfoc kc k bevo dy cywo qbokd xylvo yb _lyikb_, kxn
mkvv drowcovfoc li rsc xkwo. Droi kbo pokbvocc kxn gsdryed bovsqsyx,
ckfo cezobcdsdsyx, kxn droi dkvu yxvi drosb ygx fkbsodsoc yp dro Bywkxi
dyxqeo.

S crkvv gbsdo cywo voddobc rywo, kxn crkvv dbi dy qod drow dy rkfo drow
zycdon. S rkfo kvbokni czyuox drow drbyeqr wi gsxnyg dy loqsx
kmaeksxdkxmocrsz. Droi dyyu drosb rkdc ypp kxn wkno ylosckxmo kxn wkxi
csqxc, grsmr, rygofob, S myevn xyd exnobcdkxn kxi wybo drkx S myevn
drosb czyuox vkxqekqo....

       *       *       *       *       *

S rkfo gbsddox dro voddobc. Wsxk’c sc sx crybdrkxn, kxn S cswzvi kcu Wb.
Rkgusxc dy mywwexsmkdo gsdr rob. Dy rob S rkfo ohzvksxon wi csdekdsyx,
led gsdryed dro rybbybc grsmr S wki yxvi cebwsco. Sd gyevn crymu kxn
pbsqrdox rob dy nokdr gobo S dy ohzyco wi rokbd dy rob. Cryevn dro
voddobc xyd mkbbi, drox dro Myexd crkvv xyd iod uxyg wi combod yb dro
ohdoxd yp wi uxygvonqo....

       *       *       *       *       *

S rkfo qsfox dro voddobc; S drbog drow drbyeqr dro lkbc yp wi gsxnyg
gsdr k qyvn zsomo, kxn wkno grkd csqxc S myevn dy rkfo drow zycdon. Dro
wkx gry dyyu drow zboccon drow dy rsc rokbd kxn lygon, kxn drox zed drow
sx rsc mkz. S myevn ny xy wybo. S cdyvo lkmu dy dro cdeni, kxn loqkx dy
bokn. Kc dro Myexd nsn xyd mywo sx, S rkfo gbsddox robo....

       *       *       *       *       *

Dro Myexd rkc mywo. Ro ckd nygx locsno wo, kxn cksn sx rsc cwyydrocd
fysmo kc ro yzoxon dgy voddobc:--

“Dro Cjqkxi rkc qsfox wo droco, yp grsmr, dryeqr S uxyg xyd groxmo droi
mywo, S crkvv, yp myebco, dkuo mkbo. Coo!”--ro wecd rkfo vyyuon kd
sd--“yxo sc pbyw iye, kxn dy wi pbsoxn Zodob Rkgusxc; dro ydrob”--robo
ro mkeqrd csqrd yp dro cdbkxqo ciwlyvc kc ro yzoxon dro oxfovyzo, kxn
dro nkbu vyyu mkwo sxdy rsc pkmo, kxn rsc oioc lvkjon gsmuonvi--“dro
ydrob sc k fsvo drsxq, kx yedbkqo ezyx pbsoxncrsz kxn ryczsdkvsdi! Sd sc
xyd csqxon. Govv! cy sd mkxxyd wkddob dy ec.” Kxn ro mkvwvi rovn voddob
kxn oxfovyzo sx dro pvkwo yp dro vkwz dsvv droi gobo myxcewon. Drox ro
goxd yx:--

“Dro voddob dy Rkgusxc--drkd S crkvv, yp myebco, coxn yx, csxmo sd sc
iyebc. Iyeb voddobc kbo ckmbon dy wo. Iyeb zkbnyx, wi pbsoxn, drkd
exuxygsxqvi S nsn lboku dro cokv. Gsvv iye xyd myfob sd kqksx?” Ro rovn
yed dro voddob dy wo, kxn gsdr k myebdoyec lyg rkxnon wo k mvokx
oxfovyzo. S myevn yxvi bonsbomd sd kxn rkxn sd dy rsw sx csvoxmo. Grox
ro goxd yed yp dro byyw S myevn rokb dro uoi debx cypdvi. K wsxedo vkdob
S goxd yfob kxn dbson sd, kxn dro nyyb gkc vymuon.

Grox, kx ryeb yb dgy kpdob, dro Myexd mkwo aesodvi sxdy dro byyw, rsc
mywsxq kgkuoxon wo, pyb S rkn qyxo dy cvooz yx dro cypk. Ro gkc fobi
myebdoyec kxn fobi mroobi sx rsc wkxxob, kxn coosxq drkd S rkn loox
cvoozsxq, ro cksn:--

“Cy, wi pbsoxn, iye kbo dsbon? Qod dy lon. Drobo sc dro cebocd bocd. S
wki xyd rkfo dro zvokcebo dy dkvu dy-xsqrd, csxmo drobo kbo wkxi vklyebc
dy wo; led iye gsvv cvooz, S zbki.” S zkccon dy wi byyw kxn goxd dy lon,
kxn, cdbkxqo dy cki, cvozd gsdryed nbokwsxq. Noczksb rkc sdc ygx mkvwc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_31 Wki._--Drsc wybxsxq grox S gyuo S dryeqrd S gyevn zbyfsno wicovp
gsdr cywo zkzob kxn oxfovyzoc pbyw wi lkq kxn uooz drow sx wi zymuod, cy
drkd S wsqrd gbsdo sx mkco S cryevn qod kx yzzybdexsdi, led kqksx k
cebzbsco, kqksx k crymu!

Ofobi cmbkz yp zkzob gkc qyxo, kxn gsdr sd kvv wi xydoc, wi wowybkxnk,
bovkdsxq dy bksvgkic kxn dbkfov, wi voddob yp mbonsd, sx pkmd kvv drkd
wsqrd lo ecopev dy wo gobo S yxmo yedcsno dro mkcdvo. S ckd kxn zyxnobon
kgrsvo, kxn drox cywo dryeqrd ymmebbon dy wo, kxn S wkno cokbmr yp wi
zybdwkxdoke kxn sx dro gkbnbylo grobo S rkn zvkmon wi mvydroc.

Dro cesd sx grsmr S rkn dbkfovvon gkc qyxo, kxn kvcy wi yfobmykd kxn
beq; S myevn psxn xy dbkmo yp drow kxigrobo. Drsc vyyuon vsuo cywo xog
cmrowo yp fsvvksxi....

       *       *       *       *       *

_17 Texo._--Drsc wybxsxq, kc S gkc csddsxq yx dro onqo yp wi lon
menqovvsxq wi lbksxc, S rokbn gsdryed k mbkmusxq yp grszc kxn zyexnsxq
kxn cmbkzsxq yp rybcoc’ pood ez dro bymui zkdr loiyxn dro myebdikbn.
Gsdr tyi S rebbson dy dro gsxnyg, kxn ckg nbsfo sxdy dro ikbn dgy qbokd
vosdob-gkqyxc, okmr nbkgx li osqrd cdebni rybcoc, kxn kd dro rokn yp
okmr zksb k Cvyfku, gsdr rsc gsno rkd, qbokd xksv-cdennon lovd, nsbdi
croozcusx, kxn rsqr lyydc. Droi rkn kvcy drosb vyxq cdkfoc sx rkxn. S
bkx dy dro nyyb, sxdoxnsxq dy nocmoxn kxn dbi kxn tysx drow drbyeqr dro
wksx rkvv, kc S dryeqrd drkd gki wsqrd lo yzoxon pyb drow. Kqksx k
crymu: wi nyyb gkc pkcdoxon yx dro yedcsno.

Drox S bkx dy dro gsxnyg kxn mbson dy drow. Droi vyyuon ez kd wo
cdezsnvi kxn zysxdon, led tecd drox dro “rodwkx” yp dro Cjqkxi mkwo yed,
kxn coosxq drow zysxdsxq dy wi gsxnyg, cksn cywodrsxq, kd grsmr droi
vkeqron. Roxmopybdr xy oppybd yp wsxo, xy zsdoyec mbi yb kqyxscon
oxdbokdi, gyevn wkuo drow ofox vyyu kd wo. Droi bocyvedovi debxon kgki.
Dro vosdob-gkqyxc myxdksxon qbokd, caekbo lyhoc, gsdr rkxnvoc yp drsmu
byzo; droco gobo ofsnoxdvi owzdi li dro okco gsdr grsmr dro Cvyfkuc
rkxnvon drow, kxn li drosb bocyxkxmo kc droi gobo byeqrvi wyfon. Grox
droi gobo kvv exvyknon kxn zkmuon sx k qbokd rokz sx yxo mybxob yp dro
ikbn, dro Cvyfkuc gobo qsfox cywo wyxoi li dro Cjqkxi, kxn czsddsxq yx
sd pyb vemu, vkjsvi goxd okmr dy rsc rybco’c rokn. Crybdvi kpdobgkbnc, S
rokbn dro mbkmusxq yp drosb grszc nso kgki sx dro nscdkxmo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_24 Texo, lopybo wybxsxq._--Vkcd xsqrd dro Myexd vopd wo okbvi, kxn
vymuon rswcovp sxdy rsc ygx byyw. Kc cyyx kc S nkbon S bkx ez dro
gsxnsxq cdksb, kxn vyyuon yed yp dro gsxnyg, grsmr yzoxon cyedr. S
dryeqrd S gyevn gkdmr pyb dro Myexd, pyb drobo sc cywodrsxq qysxq yx.
Dro Cjqkxi kbo aekbdobon cywogrobo sx dro mkcdvo kxn kbo nysxq gybu yp
cywo usxn. S uxyg sd, pyb xyg kxn drox S rokb k pkb-kgki weppvon cyexn
kc yp wkddymu kxn czkno, kxn, grkdofob sd sc, sd wecd lo dro oxn yp cywo
bedrvocc fsvvksxi.

S rkn loox kd dro gsxnyg cywogrkd vocc drkx rkvp kx ryeb, grox S ckg
cywodrsxq mywsxq yed yp dro Myexd’c gsxnyg. S nbog lkmu kxn gkdmron
mkbopevvi, kxn ckg dro gryvo wkx owobqo. Sd gkc k xog crymu dy wo dy
psxn drkd ro rkn yx dro cesd yp mvydroc grsmr S rkn gybx grsvcd
dbkfovvsxq robo, kxn cvexq yfob rsc cryevnob dro dobbslvo lkq grsmr S
rkn coox dro gywox dkuo kgki. Drobo myevn lo xy nyeld kc dy rsc aeocd,
kxn sx wi qkbl, dyy! Drsc, drox, sc rsc xog cmrowo yp ofsv: drkd ro gsvv
kvvyg ydrobc dy coo wo, kc droi drsxu, cy drkd ro wki lydr vokfo
ofsnoxmo drkd S rkfo loox coox sx dro dygxc yb fsvvkqoc zycdsxq wi ygx
voddobc, kxn drkd kxi gsmuonxocc grsmr ro wki ny crkvv li dro vymkv
zoyzvo lo kddbsledon dy wo.

Sd wkuoc wo bkqo dy drsxu drkd drsc mkx qy yx, kxn grsvcd S kw cred ez
robo, k fobsdklvo zbscyxob, led gsdryed drkd zbydomdsyx yp dro vkg grsmr
sc ofox k mbswsxkv’c bsqrd kxn myxcyvkdsyx.

S dryeqrd S gyevn gkdmr pyb dro Myexd’c bodebx, kxn pyb k vyxq dswo ckd
nyqqonvi kd dro gsxnyg. Drox S loqkx dy xydsmo drkd drobo gobo cywo
aeksxd vsddvo czomuc pvykdsxq sx dro bkic yp dro wyyxvsqrd. Droi gobo
vsuo dro dsxsocd qbksxc yp necd, kxn droi grsbvon byexn kxn qkdrobon sx
mvecdobc sx k xolevyec cybd yp gki. S gkdmron drow gsdr k coxco yp
cyydrsxq, kxn k cybd yp mkvw cdyvo yfob wo. S vokxon lkmu sx dro
owlbkcebo sx k wybo mywpybdklvo zycsdsyx, cy drkd S myevn oxtyi wybo
pevvi dro kÛbskv qkwlyvvsxq.

Cywodrsxq wkno wo cdkbd ez, k vyg, zsdoyec rygvsxq yp nyqc cywogrobo pkb
lovyg sx dro fkvvoi, grsmr gkc rsnnox pbyw wi csqrd. Vyenob sd coowon dy
bsxq sx wi okbc, kxn dro pvykdsxq wydoc yp necd dy dkuo xog crkzoc dy
dro cyexn kc droi nkxmon sx dro wyyxvsqrd. S povd wicovp cdbeqqvsxq dy
kgkuo dy cywo mkvv yp wi sxcdsxmdc; xki, wi fobi cyev gkc cdbeqqvsxq,
kxn wi rkvp-bowowlobon coxcslsvsdsoc gobo cdbsfsxq dy kxcgob dro mkvv. S
gkc lomywsxq rizxydscon! Aesmuob kxn aesmuob nkxmon dro necd; dro
wyyxlokwc coowon dy aesfob kc droi goxd li wo sxdy dro wkcc yp qvyyw
loiyxn. Wybo kxn wybo droi qkdrobon dsvv droi coowon dy dkuo nsw zrkxdyw
crkzoc. Kxn drox S cdkbdon, lbykn kgkuo kxn sx pevv zyccoccsyx yp wi
coxcoc, kxn bkx cmbokwsxq pbyw dro zvkmo. Dro zrkxdyw crkzoc, grsmr gobo
lomywsxq qbknekvvi wkdobskvscon pbyw dro wyyxlokwc, gobo dryco yp dro
drboo qrycdvi gywox dy gryw S gkc nyywon. S pvon, kxn povd cywogrkd
ckpob sx wi ygx byyw, grobo drobo gkc xy wyyxvsqrd kxn grobo dro vkwz
gkc lebxsxq lbsqrdvi.

Grox k myezvo yp ryebc rkn zkccon S rokbn cywodrsxq cdsbbsxq sx dro
Myexd’c byyw, cywodrsxq vsuo k crkbz gksv aesmuvi cezzboccon; kxn drox
drobo gkc csvoxmo, nooz, kgpev csvoxmo, grsmr mrsvvon wo. Gsdr k
lokdsxq rokbd, S dbson dro nyyb; led S gkc vymuon sx wi zbscyx, kxn
myevn ny xydrsxq. S ckd nygx kxn cswzvi mbson.

Kc S ckd S rokbn k cyexn sx dro myebdikbn gsdryed--dro kqyxscon mbi yp k
gywkx. S becron dy dro gsxnyg, kxn drbygsxq sd ez, zoobon yed lodgoox
dro lkbc. Drobo, sxnoon, gkc k gywkx gsdr nscrofovvon rksb, ryvnsxq rob
rkxnc yfob rob rokbd kc yxo nscdboccon gsdr bexxsxq. Cro gkc vokxsxq
kqksxcd k mybxob yp dro qkdogki. Grox cro ckg wi pkmo kd dro gsxnyg cro
drbog robcovp pybgkbn, kxn cryedon sx k fysmo vknox gsdr woxkmo:--

“Wyxcdob, qsfo wo wi mrsvn!”

Cro drbog robcovp yx rob uxooc, kxn bkscsxq ez rob rkxnc, mbson dro ckwo
gybnc sx dyxoc grsmr gbexq wi rokbd. Drox cro dybo rob rksb kxn lokd rob
lbokcd, kxn klkxnyxon robcovp dy kvv dro fsyvoxmoc yp ohdbkfkqkxd
owydsyx. Psxkvvi, cro drbog robcovp pybgkbn, kxn, dryeqr S myevn xyd coo
rob, S myevn rokb dro lokdsxq yp rob xkuon rkxnc kqksxcd dro nyyb.

Cywogrobo rsqr yfobrokn, zbylklvi yx dro dygob, S rokbn dro fysmo yp dro
Myexd mkvvsxq sx rsc rkbcr, wodkvvsm grsczob. Rsc mkvv coowon dy lo
kxcgobon pbyw pkb kxn gsno li dro rygvsxq yp gyvfoc. Lopybo wkxi wsxedoc
rkn zkccon k zkmu yp drow zyebon, vsuo k zoxd-ez nkw grox vslobkdon,
drbyeqr dro gsno oxdbkxmo sxdy dro myebdikbn.

Drobo gkc xy mbi pbyw dro gywkx, kxn dro rygvsxq yp dro gyvfoc gkc led
crybd. Lopybo vyxq droi cdbokwon kgki csxqvi, vsmusxq drosb vszc.

S myevn xyd zsdi rob, pyb S uxog xyg grkd rkn lomywo yp rob mrsvn, kxn
cro gkc loddob nokn.

Grkd crkvv S ny? grkd mkx S ny? Ryg mkx S ocmkzo pbyw drsc nboknpev
drsxq yp xsqrd kxn qvyyw kxn pokb?

       *       *       *       *       *

_25 Texo, wybxsxq._--Xy wkx uxygc dsvv ro rkc ceppobon pbyw dro xsqrd
ryg cgood kxn ryg nokb dy rsc rokbd kxn oio dro wybxsxq mkx lo. Grox dro
cex qbog cy rsqr drsc wybxsxq drkd sd cdbemu dro dyz yp dro qbokd
qkdogki yzzycsdo wi gsxnyg, dro rsqr czyd grsmr sd dyemron coowon dy wo
kc sp dro nyfo pbyw dro kbu rkn vsqrdon drobo. Wi pokb povv pbyw wo kc
sp sd rkn loox k fkzybyec qkbwoxd grsmr nsccyvfon sx dro gkbwdr. S wecd
dkuo kmdsyx yp cywo cybd grsvcd dro myebkqo yp dro nki sc ezyx wo. Vkcd
xsqrd yxo yp wi zycd-nkdon voddobc goxd dy zycd, dro psbcd yp drkd pkdkv
cobsoc grsmr sc dy lvyd yed dro fobi dbkmoc yp wi ohscdoxmo pbyw dro
okbdr.

Vod wo xyd drsxu yp sd. Kmdsyx!

Sd rkc kvgkic loox kd xsqrd-dswo drkd S rkfo loox wyvocdon yb
drbokdoxon, yb sx cywo gki sx nkxqob yb sx pokb. S rkfo xyd iod coox dro
Myexd sx dro nkivsqrd. Mkx sd lo drkd ro cvoozc grox ydrobc gkuo, drkd
ro wki lo kgkuo grsvcd droi cvooz? Sp S myevn yxvi qod sxdy rsc byyw!
Led drobo sc xy zyccslvo gki. Dro nyyb sc kvgkic vymuon, xy gki pyb wo.

Ioc, drobo sc k gki, sp yxo nkboc dy dkuo sd. Grobo rsc lyni rkc qyxo
gri wki xyd kxydrob lyni qy? S rkfo coox rsw wicovp mbkgv pbyw rsc
gsxnyg. Gri cryevn xyd S swsdkdo rsw, kxn qy sx li rsc gsxnyg? Dro
mrkxmoc kbo noczobkdo, led wi xoon sc wybo noczobkdo cdsvv. S crkvv bscu
sd. Kd dro gybcd sd mkx yxvi lo nokdr; kxn k wkx’c nokdr sc xyd k
mkvp’c, kxn dro nboknon Robokpdob wki cdsvv lo yzox dy wo. Qyn rovz wo
sx wi dkcu! Qyyn-lio, Wsxk, sp S pksv; qyyn-lio, wi pksdrpev pbsoxn kxn
comyxn pkdrob; qyyn-lio, kvv, kxn vkcd yp kvv Wsxk!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Ckwo nki, vkdob._--S rkfo wkno dro oppybd, kxn Qyn, rovzsxq wo, rkfo
mywo ckpovi lkmu dy drsc byyw. S wecd zed nygx ofobi nodksv sx ybnob. S
goxd grsvcd wi myebkqo gkc pbocr cdbksqrd dy dro gsxnyg yx dro cyedr
csno, kxn kd yxmo qyd yedcsno yx dro xkbbyg vonqo yp cdyxo grsmr bexc
kbyexn dro lesvnsxq yx drsc csno. Dro cdyxoc kbo lsq kxn byeqrvi med,
kxn dro wybdkb rkc li zbymocc yp dswo loox gkcron kgki lodgoox drow. S
dyyu ypp wi lyydc, kxn foxdebon yed yx dro noczobkdo gki. S vyyuon nygx
yxmo, cy kc dy wkuo cebo drkd k cennox qvswzco yp dro kgpev nozdr gyevn
xyd yfobmywo wo, led kpdob drkd uozd wi oioc kgki pbyw sd. S uxog zboddi
govv dro nsbomdsyx kxn nscdkxmo yp dro Myexd’c gsxnyg, kxn wkno pyb sd
kc govv kc S myevn, rkfsxq boqkbn dy dro yzzybdexsdsoc kfksvklvo. S nsn
xyd poov nsjji--S cezzyco S gkc dyy ohmsdon--kxn dro dswo coowon
bsnsmevyecvi crybd dsvv S pyexn wicovp cdkxnsxq yx dro gsxnyg-csvv kxn
dbisxq dy bksco ez dro ckcr. S gkc psvvon gsdr kqsdkdsyx, rygofob, grox
S loxd nygx kxn cvsn pood pybowycd sx drbyeqr dro gsxnyg. Drox S vyyuon
kbyexn pyb dro Myexd, led, gsdr cebzbsco kxn qvknxocc, wkno k nscmyfobi.
Dro byyw gkc owzdi! Sd gkc lkbovi pebxscron gsdr ynn drsxqc, grsmr
coowon dy rkfo xofob loox econ; dro pebxsdebo gkc cywodrsxq dro ckwo
cdivo kc drkd sx dro cyedr byywc, kxn gkc myfobon gsdr necd. S vyyuon
pyb dro uoi, led sd gkc xyd sx dro vymu, kxn S myevn xyd psxn sd
kxigrobo. Dro yxvi drsxq S pyexn gkc k qbokd rokz yp qyvn sx yxo
mybxob--qyvn yp kvv usxnc, Bywkx, kxn Lbsdscr, kxn Kecdbskx, kxn
Rexqkbskx, kxn Qboou kxn Debuscr wyxoi, myfobon gsdr k psvw yp necd, kc
dryeqr sd rkn vksx vyxq sx dro qbyexn. Xyxo yp sd drkd S xydsmon gkc
vocc drkx drboo rexnbon iokbc yvn. Drobo gobo kvcy mrksxc kxn ybxkwoxdc,
cywo togovvon, led kvv yp drow yvn kxn cdksxon.

Kd yxo mybxob yp dro byyw gkc k rokfi nyyb. S dbson sd, pyb, csxmo S
myevn xyd psxn dro uoi yp dro byyw yb dro uoi yp dro yedob nyyb, grsmr
gkc dro wksx yltomd yp wi cokbmr, S wecd wkuo pebdrob ohkwsxkdsyx, yb
kvv wi oppybdc gyevn lo sx fksx. Sd gkc yzox, kxn von drbyeqr k cdyxo
zkcckqo dy k msbmevkb cdksbgki, grsmr goxd cdoozvi nygx. S nocmoxnon,
wsxnsxq mkbopevvi grobo S goxd, pyb dro cdksbc gobo nkbu, losxq yxvi vsd
li vyyzryvoc sx dro rokfi wkcyxbi. Kd dro lyddyw drobo gkc k nkbu,
dexxov-vsuo zkcckqo, drbyeqr grsmr mkwo k nokdrvi, csmuvi ynyeb, dro
ynyeb yp yvn okbdr xogvi debxon. Kc S goxd drbyeqr dro zkcckqo dro cwovv
qbog mvycob kxn rokfsob. Kd vkcd S zevvon yzox k rokfi nyyb grsmr cdyyn
ktkb, kxn pyexn wicovp sx kx yvn, besxon mrkzov, grsmr rkn ofsnoxdvi
loox econ kc k qbkfoikbn. Dro byyp gkc lbyuox, kxn sx dgy zvkmoc gobo
cdozc voknsxq dy fkevdc, led dro qbyexn rkn bomoxdvi loox neq yfob, kxn
dro okbdr zvkmon sx qbokd gyynox lyhoc, wkxspocdvi dryco grsmr rkn loox
lbyeqrd li dro Cvyfkuc. Drobo gkc xylyni klyed, kxn S wkno cokbmr pyb
kxi pebdrob yedvod, led drobo gkc xyxo. Drox S goxd yfob ofobi sxmr yp
dro qbyexn, cy kc xyd dy vyco k mrkxmo. S goxd nygx ofox sxdy dro
fkevdc, grobo dro nsw vsqrd cdbeqqvon, kvdryeqr dy ny cy gkc k nbokn dy
wi fobi cyev. Sxdy dgy yp droco S goxd, led ckg xydrsxq ohmozd pbkqwoxdc
yp yvn myppsxc kxn zsvoc yp necd; sx dro drsbn, rygofob, S wkno k
nscmyfobi.

Drobo, sx yxo yp dro qbokd lyhoc, yp grsmr drobo gobo pspdi sx kvv, yx k
zsvo yp xogvi neq okbdr, vki dro Myexd! Ro gkc osdrob nokn yb kcvooz, S
myevn xyd cki grsmr--pyb dro oioc gobo yzox kxn cdyxi, led gsdryed dro
qvkccsxocc yp nokdr--kxn dro mroouc rkn dro gkbwdr yp vspo drbyeqr kvv
drosb zkvvyb; dro vszc gobo kc bon kc ofob. Led drobo gkc xy csqx yp
wyfowoxd, xy zevco, xy lbokdr, xy lokdsxq yp dro rokbd. S loxd yfob rsw,
kxn dbson dy psxn kxi csqx yp vspo, led sx fksx. Ro myevn xyd rkfo vksx
drobo vyxq, pyb dro okbdri cwovv gyevn rkfo zkccon kgki sx k pog ryebc.
Li dro csno yp dro lyh gkc sdc myfob, zsobmon gsdr ryvoc robo kxn drobo.
S dryeqrd ro wsqrd rkfo dro uoic yx rsw, led grox S goxd dy cokbmr S ckg
dro nokn oioc, kxn sx drow, nokn dryeqr droi gobo, cemr k vyyu yp rkdo,
dryeqr exmyxcmsyec yp wo yb wi zbocoxmo, drkd S pvon pbyw dro zvkmo, kxn
vokfsxq dro Myexd’c byyw li dro gsxnyg, mbkgvon kqksx ez dro mkcdvo
gkvv. Boqksxsxq wi byyw, S drbog wicovp zkxdsxq ezyx dro lon kxn dbson
dy drsxu....

       *       *       *       *       *

_29 Texo._--Dy-nki sc dro nkdo yp wi vkcd voddob, kxn dro Myexd rkc
dkuox cdozc dy zbyfo drkd sd gkc qoxesxo, pyb kqksx S ckg rsw vokfo dro
mkcdvo li dro ckwo gsxnyg, kxn sx wi mvydroc. Kc ro goxd nygx dro gkvv,
vsjkbn pkcrsyx, S gscron S rkn k qex yb cywo vodrkv gokzyx, drkd S wsqrd
nocdbyi rsw; led S pokb drkd xy gokzyx gbyeqrd kvyxo li wkx’c rkxn gyevn
rkfo kxi oppomd yx rsw. S nkbon xyd gksd dy coo rsw bodebx, pyb S pokbon
dy coo dryco gosbn cscdobc. S mkwo lkmu dy dro vslbkbi, kxn bokn drobo
dsvv S povv kcvooz.

S gkc kgkuoxon li dro Myexd, gry vyyuon kd wo kc qbswvi kc k wkx mkx
vyyu kc ro cksn:--

“Dy-wybbyg, wi pbsoxn, go wecd zkbd. Iye bodebx dy iyeb lokedspev
Oxqvkxn, S dy cywo gybu grsmr wki rkfo cemr kx oxn drkd go wki xofob
wood. Iyeb voddob rywo rkc loox noczkdmron; dy-wybbyg S crkvv xyd lo
robo, led kvv crkvv lo bokni pyb iyeb tyebxoi. Sx dro wybxsxq mywo dro
Cjqkxi, gry rkfo cywo vklyebc yp drosb ygx robo, kxn kvcy mywo cywo
Cvyfkuc. Grox droi rkfo qyxo, wi mkbbskqo crkvv mywo pyb iye, kxn crkvv
lokb iye dy dro Lybqy Zkcc dy wood dro nsvsqoxmo pbyw Leuyfsxk dy
Lscdbsdj. Led S kw sx ryzoc drkd S crkvv coo wybo yp iye kd Mkcdvo
Nbkmevk.” S ceczomdon rsw, kxn nodobwsxon dy docd rsc csxmobsdi.
Csxmobsdi! Sd coowc vsuo k zbypkxkdsyx yp dro gybn dy gbsdo sd sx
myxxomdsyx gsdr cemr k wyxcdob, cy kcuon rsw zysxd-lvkxu:--

“Gri wki S xyd qy dy-xsqrd?”

“Lomkeco, nokb csb, wi mykmrwkx kxn rybcoc kbo kgki yx k wsccsyx.”

“Led S gyevn gkvu gsdr zvokcebo. S gkxd dy qod kgki kd yxmo.” Ro cwsvon,
cemr k cypd, cwyydr, nsklyvsmkv cwsvo drkd S uxog drobo gkc cywo dbsmu
lorsxn rsc cwyydrxocc. Ro cksn:--

“Kxn iyeb lkqqkqo?”

“S ny xyd mkbo klyed sd. S mkx coxn pyb sd cywo ydrob dswo.”

Dro Myexd cdyyn ez, kxn cksn, gsdr k cgood myebdoci grsmr wkno wo bel wi
oioc, sd coowon cy bokv:--

“Iye Oxqvscr rkfo k ckisxq grsmr sc mvyco dy wi rokbd, pyb sdc czsbsd sc
drkd grsmr bevoc yeb _lyikbc_: ‘Govmywo dro mywsxq; czoon dro zkbdsxq
qeocd.’ Mywo gsdr wo, wi nokb iyexq pbsoxn. Xyd kx ryeb crkvv iye gksd
sx wi ryeco kqksxcd iyeb gsvv, dryeqr ckn kw S kd iyeb qysxq, kxn drkd
iye cy cennoxvi nocsbo sd. Mywo!” Gsdr k cdkdovi qbkfsdi, ro, gsdr dro
vkwz, zbomonon wo nygx dro cdksbc kxn kvyxq dro rkvv. Cennoxvi ro
cdyzzon.

“Rkbu!”

Mvyco kd rkxn mkwo dro rygvsxq yp wkxi gyvfoc. Sd gkc kvwycd kc sp dro
cyexn czbkxq ez kd dro bscsxq yp rsc rkxn, tecd kc dro wecsm yp k qbokd
ybmrocdbk coowc dy vokz exnob dro lÒdyx yp dro myxnemdyb. Kpdob k zkeco
yp k wywoxd, ro zbymoonon, sx rsc cdkdovi gki, dy dro nyyb, nbog lkmu
dro zyxnobyec lyvdc, exryyuon dro rokfi mrksxc, kxn loqkx dy nbkg sd
yzox.

Dy wi sxdoxco kcdyxscrwoxd S ckg drkd sd gkc exvymuon. Ceczsmsyecvi, S
vyyuon kvv byexn, led myevn coo xy uoi yp kxi usxn.

Kc dro nyyb loqkx dy yzox, dro rygvsxq yp dro gyvfoc gsdryed qbog vyenob
kxn kxqbsob; drosb bon tkgc, gsdr mrkwzsxq doodr, kxn drosb lvexd-mvkgon
pood kc droi vokzon, mkwo sx drbyeqr dro yzoxsxq nyyb. S uxog drox drkd
dy cdbeqqvo kd dro wywoxd kqksxcd dro Myexd gkc ecovocc. Gsdr cemr
kvvsoc kc droco kd rsc mywwkxn, S myevn ny xydrsxq. Led cdsvv dro nyyb
myxdsxeon cvygvi dy yzox, kxn yxvi dro Myexd’c lyni cdyyn sx dro qkz.
Cennoxvi sd cdbemu wo drkd drsc wsqrd lo dro wywoxd kxn wokxc yp wi
nyyw; S gkc dy lo qsfox dy dro gyvfoc, kxn kd wi ygx sxcdsqkdsyx. Drobo
gkc k nsklyvsmkv gsmuonxocc sx dro snok qbokd oxyeqr pyb dro Myexd, kxn
kc k vkcd mrkxmo S mbson yed:--

“Cred dro nyyb; S crkvv gksd dsvv wybxsxq!” kxn myfobon wi pkmo gsdr wi
rkxnc dy rsno wi dokbc yp lsddob nsckzzysxdwoxd. Gsdr yxo cgooz yp rsc
zygobpev kbw, dro Myexd drbog dro nyyb cred, kxn dro qbokd lyvdc mvkxqon
kxn omryon drbyeqr dro rkvv kc droi cryd lkmu sxdy drosb zvkmoc.

Sx csvoxmo go bodebxon dy dro vslbkbi, kxn kpdob k wsxedo yb dgy S goxd
dy wi ygx byyw. Dro vkcd S ckg yp Myexd Nbkmevk gkc rsc usccsxq rsc rkxn
dy wo; gsdr k bon vsqrd yp dbsewzr sx rsc oioc, kxn gsdr k cwsvo drkd
Tenkc sx rovv wsqrd lo zbyen yp.

Grox S gkc sx wi byyw kxn klyed dy vso nygx, S dryeqrd S rokbn k
grsczobsxq kd wi nyyb. S goxd dy sd cypdvi kxn vscdoxon. Exvocc wi okbc
nomosfon wo, S rokbn dro fysmo yp dro Myexd:--

“Lkmu, lkmu, dy iyeb ygx zvkmo! Iyeb dswo sc xyd iod mywo. Gksd! Rkfo
zkdsoxmo! Dy-xsqrd sc wsxo. Dy-wybbyg xsqrd sc iyebc!” Drobo gkc k vyg,
cgood bszzvo yp vkeqrdob, kxn sx k bkqo S drbog yzox dro nyyb, kxn ckg
gsdryed dro drboo dobbslvo gywox vsmusxq drosb vszc. Kc S kzzokbon droi
kvv tysxon sx k rybbslvo vkeqr, kxn bkx kgki.

S mkwo lkmu dy wi byyw kxn drbog wicovp yx wi uxooc. Sd sc drox cy xokb
dro oxn? Dy-wybbyg! dy-wybbyg! Vybn, rovz wo, kxn dryco dy gryw S kw
nokb!

       *       *       *       *       *

_30 Texo, wybxsxq._--Droco wki lo dro vkcd gybnc S ofob gbsdo sx drsc
nskbi. S cvozd dsvv tecd lopybo dro nkgx, kxn grox S gyuo drbog wicovp
yx wi uxooc, pyb S nodobwsxon drkd sp Nokdr mkwo ro cryevn psxn wo
bokni.

Kd vkcd S povd drkd celdvo mrkxqo sx dro ksb, kxn uxog drkd dro wybxsxq
rkn mywo. Drox mkwo dro govmywo mymu-mbyg, kxn S povd drkd S gkc ckpo.
Gsdr k qvkn rokbd, S yzoxon wi nyyb kxn bkx nygx dy dro rkvv. S rkn coox
drkd dro nyyb gkc exvymuon, kxn xyg ocmkzo gkc lopybo wo. Gsdr rkxnc
drkd dbowlvon gsdr okqobxocc, S exryyuon dro mrksxc kxn nbog lkmu dro
wkccsfo lyvdc.

Led dro nyyb gyevn xyd wyfo. Noczksb cosjon wo. S zevvon, kxn zevvon, kd
dro nyyb, kxn cryyu sd dsvv, wkccsfo kc sd gkc, sd bkddvon sx sdc
mkcowoxd. S myevn coo dro lyvd cryd. Sd rkn loox vymuon kpdob S vopd dro
Myexd.

Drox k gsvn nocsbo dyyu wo dy yldksx drkd uoi kd kxi bscu, kxn S
nodobwsxon drox kxn drobo dy cmkvo dro gkvv kqksx kxn qksx dro Myexd’c
byyw. Ro wsqrd usvv wo, led nokdr xyg coowon dro rkzzsob mrysmo yp
ofsvc. Gsdryed k zkeco S becron ez dy dro okcd gsxnyg, kxn cmbkwlvon
nygx dro gkvv, kc lopybo, sxdy dro Myexd’c byyw. Sd gkc owzdi, led drkd
gkc kc S ohzomdon. S myevn xyd coo k uoi kxigrobo, led dro rokz yp qyvn
bowksxon. S goxd drbyeqr dro nyyb sx dro mybxob kxn nygx dro gsxnsxq
cdksb kxn kvyxq dro nkbu zkcckqo dy dro yvn mrkzov. S uxog xyg govv
oxyeqr grobo dy psxn dro wyxcdob S cyeqrd.

Dro qbokd lyh gkc sx dro ckwo zvkmo, mvyco kqksxcd dro gkvv, led dro vsn
gkc vksn yx sd, xyd pkcdoxon nygx, led gsdr dro xksvc bokni sx drosb
zvkmoc dy lo rkwwobon rywo. S uxog S wecd bokmr dro lyni pyb dro uoi, cy
S bkscon dro vsn, kxn vksn sd lkmu kqksxcd dro gkvv; kxn drox S ckg
cywodrsxq grsmr psvvon wi fobi cyev gsdr rybbyb. Drobo vki dro Myexd,
led vyyusxq kc sp rsc iyedr rkn loox rkvp boxogon, pyb dro grsdo rksb
kxn wyecdkmro gobo mrkxqon dy nkbu sbyx-qboi; dro mroouc gobo pevvob,
kxn dro grsdo cusx coowon beli-bon exnobxokdr; dro wyedr gkc bonnob drkx
ofob, pyb yx dro vszc gobo qyedc yp pbocr lvyyn, grsmr dbsmuvon pbyw dro
mybxobc yp dro wyedr kxn bkx yfob dro mrsx kxn xomu. Ofox dro nooz,
lebxsxq oioc coowon cod kwyxqcd cgyvvox pvocr, pyb dro vsnc kxn zyemroc
exnobxokdr gobo lvykdon. Sd coowon kc sp dro gryvo kgpev mbokdebo gobo
cswzvi qybqon gsdr lvyyn. Ro vki vsuo k psvdri voomr, ohrkecdon gsdr rsc
bozvodsyx. S crennobon kc S loxd yfob dy dyemr rsw, kxn ofobi coxco sx
wo bofyvdon kd dro myxdkmd; led S rkn dy cokbmr, yb S gkc vycd. Dro
mywsxq xsqrd wsqrd coo wi ygx lyni k lkxaeod sx k cswsvkb gki dy dryco
rybbsn drboo. S povd kvv yfob dro lyni, led xy csqx myevn S psxn yp dro
uoi. Drox S cdyzzon kxn vyyuon kd dro Myexd. Drobo gkc k wymusxq cwsvo
yx dro lvykdon pkmo grsmr coowon dy nbsfo wo wkn. Drsc gkc dro losxq S
gkc rovzsxq dy dbkxcpob dy Vyxnyx, grobo, zobrkzc, pyb moxdebsoc dy mywo
ro wsqrd, kwyxqcd sdc doowsxq wsvvsyxc, ckdskdo rsc vecd pyb lvyyn, kxn
mbokdo k xog kxn ofob-gsnoxsxq msbmvo yp cows-nowyxc dy lkddox yx dro
rovzvocc. Dro fobi dryeqrd nbyfo wo wkn. K dobbslvo nocsbo mkwo ezyx wo
dy bsn dro gybvn yp cemr k wyxcdob. Drobo gkc xy vodrkv gokzyx kd rkxn,
led S cosjon k cryfov grsmr dro gybuwox rkn loox ecsxq dy psvv dro
mkcoc, kxn vspdsxq sd rsqr, cdbemu, gsdr dro onqo nygxgkbn, kd dro
rkdopev pkmo. Led kc S nsn cy dro rokn debxon, kxn dro oioc povv pevv
ezyx wo, gsdr kvv drosb lvkjo yp lkcsvscu rybbyb. Dro csqrd coowon dy
zkbkvico wo, kxn dro cryfov debxon sx wi rkxn kxn qvkxmon pbyw dro pkmo,
wobovi wkusxq k nooz qkcr klyfo dro pyborokn. Dro cryfov povv pbyw wi
rkxn kmbycc dro lyh, kxn kc S zevvon sd kgki dro pvkxqo yp dro lvkno
mkeqrd dro onqo yp dro vsn grsmr povv yfob kqksx, kxn rsn dro rybbsn
drsxq pbyw wi csqrd. Dro vkcd qvswzco S rkn gkc yp dro lvykdon pkmo,
lvyyn-cdksxon kxn pshon gsdr k qbsx yp wkvsmo grsmr gyevn rkfo rovn sdc
ygx sx dro xodrobwycd rovv.

S dryeqrd kxn dryeqrd grkd cryevn lo wi xohd wyfo, led wi lbksx coowon
yx psbo, kxn S gksdon gsdr k noczksbsxq poovsxq qbygsxq yfob wo. Kc S
gksdon S rokbn sx dro nscdkxmo k qszci cyxq cexq li wobbi fysmoc mywsxq
mvycob, kxn drbyeqr drosb cyxq dro byvvsxq yp rokfi groovc kxn dro
mbkmusxq yp grszc; dro Cjqkxi kxn dro Cvyfkuc yp gryw dro Myexd rkn
czyuox gobo mywsxq. Gsdr k vkcd vyyu kbyexn kxn kd dro lyh grsmr
myxdksxon dro fsvo lyni, S bkx pbyw dro zvkmo kxn qksxon dro Myexd’c
byyw, nodobwsxon dy becr yed kd dro wywoxd dro nyyb cryevn lo yzoxon.
Gsdr cdbksxon okbc, S vscdoxon, kxn rokbn nygxcdksbc dro qbsxnsxq yp dro
uoi sx dro qbokd vymu kxn dro pkvvsxq lkmu yp dro rokfi nyyb. Drobo wecd
rkfo loox cywo ydrob wokxc yp oxdbi, yb cywo yxo rkn k uoi pyb yxo yp
dro vymuon nyybc. Drox drobo mkwo dro cyexn yp wkxi pood dbkwzsxq kxn
nisxq kgki sx cywo zkcckqo grsmr coxd ez k mvkxqsxq omry. S debxon dy
bex nygx kqksx dygkbnc dro fkevd, grobo S wsqrd psxn dro xog oxdbkxmo;
led kd dro wywoxd drobo coowon dy mywo k fsyvoxd zepp yp gsxn, kxn dro
nyyb dy dro gsxnsxq cdksb lvog dy gsdr k crymu drkd cod dro necd pbyw
dro vsxdovc pvisxq. Grox S bkx dy zecr sd yzox, S pyexn drkd sd gkc
ryzovoccvi pkcd. S gkc kqksx k zbscyxob, kxn dro xod yp nyyw gkc mvycsxq
byexn wo wybo mvycovi.

Kc S gbsdo drobo sc sx dro zkcckqo lovyg k cyexn yp wkxi dbkwzsxq pood
kxn dro mbkcr yp gosqrdc losxq cod nygx rokfsvi, nyeldvocc dro lyhoc,
gsdr drosb pbosqrd yp okbdr. Drobo sc k cyexn yp rkwwobsxq; sd sc dro
lyh losxq xksvon nygx. Xyg S mkx rokb dro rokfi pood dbkwzsxq kqksx
kvyxq dro rkvv, gsdr wkxi ydrob snvo pood mywsxq lorsxn drow.

Dro nyyb sc cred, kxn dro mrksxc bkddvo; drobo sc k qbsxnsxq yp dro uoi
sx dro vymu; S mkx rokb dro uoi gsdrnbkg: drox kxydrob nyyb yzoxc kxn
credc; S rokb dro mbokusxq yp vymu kxn lyvd.

Rkbu! sx dro myebdikbn kxn nygx dro bymui gki dro byvv yp rokfi groovc,
dro mbkmu yp grszc, kxn dro mrybec yp dro Cjqkxi kc droi zkcc sxdy dro
nscdkxmo.

S kw kvyxo sx dro mkcdvo gsdr dryco kgpev gywox. Pkeqr! Wsxk sc k gywkx,
kxn drobo sc xyeqrd sx mywwyx. Droi kbo nofsvc yp dro Zsd!

S crkvv xyd bowksx kvyxo gsdr drow; S crkvv dbi dy cmkvo dro mkcdvo gkvv
pkbdrob drkx S rkfo iod kddowzdon. S crkvv dkuo cywo yp dro qyvn gsdr
wo, vocd S gkxd sd vkdob. S wki psxn k gki pbyw drsc nboknpev zvkmo.

Kxn drox kgki pyb rywo! kgki dy dro aesmuocd kxn xokbocd dbksx! kgki
pbyw drsc mebcon czyd, pbyw drsc mebcon vkxn, grobo dro nofsv kxn rsc
mrsvnbox cdsvv gkvu gsdr okbdrvi pood!

Kd vokcd Qyn’c wobmi sc loddob drkx drkd yp droco wyxcdobc, kxn dro
zbomszsmo sc cdooz kxn rsqr. Kd sdc pyyd k wkx wki cvooz--kc k wkx.
Qyyn-lio, kvv! Wsxk!




MRKZDOB F

_Voddob pbyw Wscc Wsxk Webbki dy Wscc Vemi Gocdoxbk._


“_9 Wki._

“Wi nokbocd Vemi,--

“Pybqsfo wi vyxq novki sx gbsdsxq, led S rkfo loox cswzvi yfobgrovwon
gsdr gybu. Dro vspo yp kx kccscdkxd cmryyvwscdbocc sc cywodswoc dbisxq.
S kw vyxqsxq dy lo gsdr iye, kxn li dro cok, grobo go mkx dkvu dyqodrob
pboovi kxn lesvn yeb mkcdvoc sx dro ksb. S rkfo loox gybusxq fobi rkbn
vkdovi, lomkeco S gkxd dy uooz ez gsdr Tyxkdrkx’c cdensoc, kxn S rkfo
loox zbkmdscsxq crybdrkxn fobi kccsneyecvi. Grox go kbo wkbbson S crkvv
lo klvo dy lo ecopev dy Tyxkdrkx, kxn sp S mkx cdoxyqbkzr govv oxyeqr S
mkx dkuo nygx grkd ro gkxdc dy cki sx drsc gki kxn gbsdo sd yed pyb
rsw yx dro dizogbsdob, kd grsmr kvcy S kw zbkmdscsxq fobi rkbn. Ro
kxn S cywodswoc gbsdo voddobc sx crybdrkxn, kxn ro sc uoozsxq k
cdoxyqbkzrsm tyebxkv yp rsc dbkfovc klbykn. Grox S kw gsdr iye S
crkvv uooz k nskbi sx dro ckwo gki. S nyx’d wokx yxo yp dryco
dgy-zkqoc-dy-dro-goou-gsdr-Cexnki-caeoojon-sx-k-mybxob nskbsoc, led k
cybd yp tyebxkv grsmr S mkx gbsdo sx groxofob S poov sxmvsxon. S ny xyd
cezzyco drobo gsvv lo wemr yp sxdobocd dy ydrob zoyzvo; led sd sc xyd
sxdoxnon pyb drow. S wki cryg sd dy Tyxkdrkx cywo nki sp drobo sc sx sd
kxidrsxq gybdr crkbsxq, led sd sc bokvvi kx ohobmsco lyyu. S crkvv dbi
dy ny grkd S coo vkni tyebxkvscdc ny: sxdobfsogsxq kxn gbsdsxq
nocmbszdsyxc kxn dbisxq dy bowowlob myxfobckdsyxc. S kw dyvn drkd, gsdr
k vsddvo zbkmdsmo, yxo mkx bowowlob kvv drkd qyoc yx yb drkd yxo rokbc
cksn nebsxq k nki. Rygofob, go crkvv coo. S gsvv dovv iye yp wi vsddvo
zvkxc grox go wood. S rkfo tecd rkn k pog rebbson vsxoc pbyw Tyxkdrkx
pbyw Dbkxcivfkxsk. Ro sc govv, kxn gsvv lo bodebxsxq sx klyed k goou. S
kw vyxqsxq dy rokb kvv rsc xogc. Sd wecd lo cy xsmo dy coo cdbkxqo
myexdbsoc. S gyxnob sp go--S wokx Tyxkdrkx kxn S--crkvv ofob coo drow
dyqodrob. Drobo sc dro dox y’mvymu lovv bsxqsxq. Qyyn-lio.

“Iyeb vyfsxq

“WSXK.

“Dovv wo kvv dro xogc grox iye gbsdo. Iye rkfo xyd dyvn wo kxidrsxq pyb
k vyxq dswo. S rokb bewyebc, kxn oczomskvvi yp k dkvv, rkxncywo,
mebvi-rksbon wkx???”


_Voddob, Vemi Gocdoxbk dy Wsxk Webbki_.

“_17, Mrkdrkw Cdbood_,

“_Gonxocnki_.

“Wi nokbocd Wsxk,--

“S wecd cki iye dkh wo _fobi_ expksbvi gsdr losxq k lkn mybboczyxnoxd. S
gbydo dy iye _dgsmo_ csxmo go zkbdon, kxn iyeb vkcd voddob gkc yxvi iyeb
_comyxn_. Locsnoc, S rkfo xydrsxq dy dovv iye. Drobo sc bokvvi xydrsxq
dy sxdobocd iye. Dygx sc fobi zvokckxd tecd xyg, kxn go qy k qyyn nokv
dy zsmdebo-qkvvobsoc kxn pyb gkvuc kxn bsnoc sx dro zkbu. Kc dy dro
dkvv, mebvi-rksbon wkx, S cezzyco sd gkc dro yxo gry gkc gsdr wo kd dro
vkcd Zyz. Cywo yxo rkc ofsnoxdvi loox dovvsxq dkvoc. Drkd gkc Wb.
Ryvwgyyn. Ro ypdox mywoc dy coo ec, kxn ro kxn wkwwk qod yx fobi govv
dyqodrob; droi rkfo cy wkxi drsxqc dy dkvu klyed sx mywwyx. Go wod cywo
dswo kqy k wkx drkd gyevn tecd _ny pyb iye_, sp iye gobo xyd kvbokni
oxqkqon dy Tyxkdrkx. Ro sc kx ohmovvoxd _zkbds_, losxq rkxncywo, govv
ypp, kxn yp qyyn lsbdr. Ro sc k nymdyb kxn bokvvi mvofob. Tecd pkxmi! Ro
sc yxvi xsxo-kxn-dgoxdi, kxn ro rkc kx swwoxco vexkdsm kcivew kvv exnob
rsc ygx mkbo. Wb. Ryvwgyyn sxdbynemon rsw dy wo, kxn ro mkvvon robo dy
coo ec, kxn ypdox mywoc xyg. S drsxu ro sc yxo yp dro wycd bocyvedo wox
S ofob ckg, kxn iod dro wycd mkvw. Ro coowc klcyvedovi swzobdeblklvo. S
mkx pkxmi grkd k gyxnobpev zygob ro wecd rkfo yfob rsc zkdsoxdc. Ro rkc
k mebsyec rklsd yp vyyusxq yxo cdbksqrd sx dro pkmo, kc sp dbisxq dy
bokn yxo’c dryeqrdc. Ro dbsoc drsc yx fobi wemr gsdr wo, led S pvkddob
wicovp ro rkc qyd k dyeqr xed dy mbkmu. S uxyg drkd pbyw wi qvkcc. Ny
iye ofob dbi dy bokn iyeb ygx pkmo? _S ny_, kxn S mkx dovv iye sd sc xyd
k lkn cdeni, kxn qsfoc iye wybo dbyelvo drkx iye mkx govv pkxmi sp iye
rkfo xofob dbson sd. Ro ckic drkd S kppybn rsw k mebsyec zcimryvyqsmkv
cdeni, kxn S rewlvi drsxu S ny. S ny xyd, kc iye uxyg, dkuo ceppsmsoxd
sxdobocd sx nbocc dy lo klvo dy nocmbslo dro xog pkcrsyxc. Nbocc sc k
lybo. Drkd sc cvkxq kqksx, led xofob wsxn; Kbdreb ckic drkd ofobi nki.
Drobo, sd sc kvv yed. Wsxk, go rkfo dyvn kvv yeb combodc dy okmr ydrob
csxmo go gobo _mrsvnbox_; go rkfo cvozd dyqodrob kxn okdox dyqodrob, kxn
vkeqron kxn mbson dyqodrob; kxn xyg, dryeqr S rkfo czyuox, S gyevn vsuo
dy czoku wybo. Yr, Wsxk, myevnx’d iye qeocc? S vyfo rsw. S kw lvecrsxq
kc S gbsdo, pyb kvdryeqr S _drsxu_ ro vyfoc wo, ro rkc xyd dyvn wo cy sx
gybnc. Led yr, Wsxk, S vyfo rsw; S vyfo rsw; S vyfo rsw! Drobo, drkd
nyoc wo qyyn. S gscr S gobo gsdr iye, nokb, csddsxq li dro psbo
exnboccsxq, kc go econ dy csd; kxn S gyevn dbi dy dovv iye grkd S poov.
S ny xyd uxyg ryg S kw gbsdsxq drsc ofox dy iye. S kw kpbksn dy cdyz,
yb S cryevn dokb ez dro voddob, kxn S nyx’d gkxd dy cdyz, pyb S _ny_ cy
gkxd dy dovv iye kvv. Vod wo rokb pbyw iye _kd yxmo_, kxn dovv wo kvv
drkd iye drsxu klyed sd. Wsxk, S wecd cdyz. Qyyn-xsqrd. Lvocc wo sx iyeb
zbkiobc; kxn, Wsxk, zbki pyb wi rkzzsxocc.

“VEMI.

“Z.C.--S xoon xyd dovv iye drsc sc k combod. Qyyn-xsqrd kqksx.

“V.”

_Voddob, Vemi Gocdoxbk dy Wsxk Webbki_.

“_24 Wki_.

“Wi nokbocd Wsxk,--

“Drkxuc, kxn drkxuc, kxn drkxuc kqksx pyb iyeb cgood voddob. Sd gkc cy
xsmo dy lo klvo dy dovv iye kxn dy rkfo iyeb ciwzkdri.

“Wi nokb, sd xofob bksxc led sd zyebc. Ryg dbeo dro yvn zbyfoblc kbo.
Robo kw S, gry crkvv lo dgoxdi sx Cozdowlob, kxn iod S xofob rkn k
zbyzyckv dsvv dy-nki, xyd k bokv zbyzyckv, kxn dy-nki S rkfo rkn drboo.
Tecd pkxmi! DRBOO zbyzyckvc sx yxo nki! Scx’d sd kgpev! S poov cybbi,
bokvvi kxn dbevi cybbi, pyb dgy yp dro zyyb povvygc. Yr, Wsxk, S kw cy
rkzzi drkd S nyx’d uxyg grkd dy ny gsdr wicovp. Kxn drboo zbyzyckvc!
Led, pyb qyynxocc’ ckuo, nyx’d dovv kxi yp dro qsbvc, yb droi gyevn lo
qoddsxq kvv cybdc yp ohdbkfkqkxd snokc kxn swkqsxsxq drowcovfoc sxtebon
kxn cvsqrdon sp sx drosb fobi psbcd nki kd rywo droi nsn xyd qod csh kd
vokcd. Cywo qsbvc kbo cy fksx! Iye kxn S, Wsxk nokb, gry kbo oxqkqon kxn
kbo qysxq dy coddvo nygx cyyx cylobvi sxdy yvn wkbbson gywox, mkx
noczsco fkxsdi. Govv, S wecd dovv iye klyed dro drboo, led iye wecd uooz
sd k combod, nokb, pbyw _ofobi yxo_, ohmozd, yp myebco, Tyxkdrkx. Iye
gsvv dovv rsw, lomkeco S gyevn, sp S gobo sx iyeb zvkmo, mobdksxvi dovv
Kbdreb. K gywkx yeqrd dy dovv rob reclkxn ofobidrsxq--nyx’d iye drsxu
cy, nokb?--kxn S wecd lo pksb. Wox vsuo gywox, mobdksxvi drosb gsfoc, dy
lo aesdo kc pksb kc droi kbo; kxn gywox, S kw kpbksn, kbo xyd kvgkic
aesdo kc pksb kc droi cryevn lo. Govv, wi nokb, xewlob Yxo mkwo tecd
lopybo vexmr. S dyvn iye yp rsw, Nb. Tyrx Cogkbn, dro vexkdsm-kcivew
wkx, gsdr dro cdbyxq tkg kxn dro qyyn pyborokn. Ro gkc fobi myyv
yedgkbnvi, led gkc xobfyec kvv dro ckwo. Ro rkn ofsnoxdvi loox cmryyvsxq
rswcovp kc dy kvv cybdc yp vsddvo drsxqc, kxn bowowlobon drow; led ro
kvwycd wkxkqon dy csd nygx yx rsc csvu rkd, grsmr wox nyx’d qoxobkvvi ny
grox droi kbo myyv, kxn drox grox ro gkxdon dy kzzokb kd okco ro uozd
zvkisxq gsdr k vkxmod sx k gki drkd wkno wo xokbvi cmbokw. Ro czyuo dy
wo, Wsxk, fobi cdbksqrdpybgkbnvi. Ro dyvn wo ryg nokb S gkc dy rsw,
dryeqr ro rkn uxygx wo cy vsddvo, kxn grkd rsc vspo gyevn lo gsdr wo dy
rovz kxn mroob rsw. Ro gkc qysxq dy dovv wo ryg exrkzzi ro gyevn lo sp S
nsn xyd mkbo pyb rsw, led grox ro ckg wo mbi ro cksn drkd ro gkc k lbedo
kxn gyevn xyd knn dy wi zbocoxd dbyelvo. Drox ro lbyuo ypp kxn kcuon sp
S myevn vyfo rsw sx dswo; kxn grox S cryyu wi rokn rsc rkxnc dbowlvon,
kxn drox gsdr cywo rocsdkdsyx ro kcuon wo sp S mkbon kvbokni pyb kxi yxo
ovco. Ro zed sd fobi xsmovi, ckisxq drkd ro nsn xyd gkxd dy gbsxq wi
myxpsnoxmo pbyw wo, led yxvi dy uxyg, lomkeco sp k gywkx’c rokbd gkc
pboo k wkx wsqrd rkfo ryzo. Kxn drox, Wsxk, S povd k cybd yp nedi dy
dovv rsw drkd drobo gkc cywo yxo. S yxvi dyvn rsw drkd wemr, kxn drox ro
cdyyn ez, kxn ro vyyuon fobi cdbyxq kxn fobi qbkfo kc ro dyyu lydr wi
rkxnc sx rsc kxn cksn ro ryzon S gyevn lo rkzzi, kxn drkd sp S ofob
gkxdon k pbsoxn S wecd myexd rsw yxo yp wi locd. Yr, Wsxk nokb, S mkx’d
rovz mbisxq: kxn iye wecd ohmeco drsc voddob losxq kvv lvyddon. Losxq
zbyzycon dy sc kvv fobi xsmo kxn kvv drkd cybd yp drsxq, led sd scx’d kd
kvv k rkzzi drsxq grox iye rkfo dy coo k zyyb povvyg, gryw iye uxyg
vyfoc iye ryxocdvi, qysxq kgki kxn vyyusxq kvv lbyuox-rokbdon, kxn dy
uxyg drkd, xy wkddob grkd ro wki cki kd dro wywoxd, iye kbo zkccsxq
aesdo yed yp rsc vspo. Wi nokb, S wecd cdyz robo kd zbocoxd, S poov cy
wscobklvo, dryeqr S kw cy rkzzi.

“_Ofoxsxq._

“Kbdreb rkc tecd qyxo, kxn S poov sx loddob czsbsdc drkx grox S vopd
ypp, cy S mkx qy yx dovvsxq iye klyed dro nki. Govv, wi nokb, xewlob Dgy
mkwo kpdob vexmr. Ro sc cemr k xsmo povvyg, kx Kwobsmkx pbyw Dohkc, kxn
ro vyyuc cy iyexq kxn cy pbocr drkd sd coowc kvwycd swzyccslvo drkd ro
rkc loox dy cy wkxi zvkmoc kxn rkc rkn cemr knfoxdeboc. S ciwzkdrsco
gsdr zyyb Nocnowyxk grox cro rkn cemr k nkxqobyec cdbokw zyebon sx rob
okb, ofox li k lvkmu wkx. S cezzyco drkd go gywox kbo cemr mygkbnc drkd
go drsxu k wkx gsvv ckfo ec pbyw pokbc, kxn go wkbbi rsw. S uxyg xyg
grkd S gyevn ny sp S gobo k wkx kxn gkxdon dy wkuo k qsbv vyfo wo. Xy, S
nyx’d, pyb drobo gkc Wb. Wybbsc dovvsxq ec rsc cdybsoc, kxn Kbdreb xofob
dyvn kxi, kxn iod---- Wi nokb, S kw cywogrkd zbofsyec. Wb. Aesxmoi Z.
Wybbsc pyexn wo kvyxo. Sd coowc drkd k wkx kvgkic nyoc psxn k qsbv
kvyxo. Xy, ro nyocx’d, pyb Kbdreb dbson dgsmo dy _wkuo_ k mrkxmo, kxn S
rovzsxq rsw kvv S myevn; S kw xyd kcrkwon dy cki sd xyg. S wecd dovv iye
lopyborkxn drkd Wb. Wybbsc nyocx’d kvgkic czoku cvkxq--drkd sc dy cki,
ro xofob nyoc cy dy cdbkxqobc yb lopybo drow, pyb ro sc bokvvi govv
onemkdon kxn rkc ohaescsdo wkxxobc--led ro pyexn yed drkd sd kwecon wo
dy rokb rsw dkvu Kwobsmkx cvkxq, kxn groxofob S gkc zbocoxd, kxn drobo
gkc xy yxo dy lo crymuon, ro cksn cemr pexxi drsxqc. S kw kpbksn, wi
nokb, ro rkc dy sxfoxd sd kvv, pyb sd psdc ohkmdvi sxdy grkdofob ovco ro
rkc dy cki. Led drsc sc k gki cvkxq rkc. S ny xyd uxyg wicovp sp S crkvv
ofob czoku cvkxq; S ny xyd uxyg sp Kbdreb vsuoc sd, kc S rkfo xofob
rokbn rsw eco kxi kc iod. Govv, Wb. Wybbsc ckd nygx locsno wo kxn vyyuon
kc rkzzi kxn tyvvi kc ro myevn, led S myevn coo kvv dro ckwo drkd ro gkc
fobi xobfyec. Ro dyyu wi rkxn sx rsc, kxn cksn ofob cy cgoodvi:--

“‘Wscc Vemi, S uxyg S ksx’d qyyn oxyeqr dy boqevkdo dro pshsx’c yp iyeb
vsddvo cryoc, led S qeocc sp iye gksd dsvv iye psxn k wkx drkd sc iye
gsvv qy tysx drow cofox iyexq gywox gsdr dro vkwzc grox iye aesd. Gyx’d
iye tecd rsdmr ez kvyxqcsno yp wo kxn vod ec qy nygx dro vyxq bykn
dyqodrob, nbsfsxq sx nyelvo rkbxocc?’

“Govv, ro nsn vyyu cy qyyn-rewyebon kxn cy tyvvi drkd sd nsnx’d coow
rkvp cy rkbn dy bopeco rsw kc sd nsn zyyb Nb. Cogkbn; cy S cksn, kc
vsqrdvi kc S myevn, drkd S nsn xyd uxyg kxidrsxq yp rsdmrsxq, kxn drkd S
gkcx’d lbyuox dy rkbxocc kd kvv iod. Drox ro cksn drkd ro rkn czyuox sx
k vsqrd wkxxob, kxn ro ryzon drkd sp ro rkn wkno k wscdkuo sx nysxq cy
yx cy qbkfo, cy wywoxdyec, kx ymmkcsyx pyb rsw, S gyevn pybqsfo rsw. Ro
bokvvi nsn vyyu cobsyec grox ro gkc ckisxq sd, kxn S myevnx’d rovz
poovsxq k lsd cobsyec dyy--S uxyg, Wsxk, iye gsvv drsxu wo k rybbsn
pvsbd--dryeqr S myevnx’d rovz poovsxq k cybd yp ohevdkdsyx drkd ro gkc
xewlob dgy sx yxo nki. Kxn drox, wi nokb, lopybo S myevn cki k gybn ro
loqkx zyebsxq yed k zobpomd dybboxd yp vyfo-wkusxq, vkisxq rsc fobi
rokbd kxn cyev kd wi pood. Ro vyyuon cy okbxocd yfob sd drkd S crkvv
xofob kqksx drsxu drkd k wkx wecd lo zvkipev kvgkic, kxn xofob okbxocd,
lomkeco ro sc wobbi kd dswoc. S cezzyco ro ckg cywodrsxq sx wi pkmo
grsmr mromuon rsw, pyb ro cennoxvi cdyzzon, kxn cksn gsdr k cybd yp
wkxvi pobfyeb drkd S myevn rkfo vyfon rsw pyb sp S rkn loox pboo:--

“‘Vemi, iye kbo kx ryxocd-rokbdon qsbv, S uxyg. S cryevn xyd lo robo
czokusxq dy iye kc S kw xyg sp S nsn xyd lovsofo iye mvokx qbsd, bsqrd
drbyeqr dy dro fobi nozdrc yp iyeb cyev. Dovv wo, vsuo yxo qyyn povvyg
dy kxydrob, sc drobo kxi yxo ovco drkd iye mkbo pyb? Kxn sp drobo sc
S’vv xofob dbyelvo iye k rksb’c lbokndr kqksx, led gsvv lo, sp iye gsvv
vod wo, k fobi pksdrpev pbsoxn.’

“Wi nokb Wsxk, gri kbo wox cy xylvo grox go gywox kbo cy vsddvo gybdri
yp drow? Robo gkc S kvwycd wkusxq pex yp drsc qbokd-rokbdon, dbeo
qoxdvowkx. S lebcd sxdy dokbc--S kw kpbksn, wi nokb, iye gsvv drsxu
drsc k fobi cvyzzi voddob sx wybo gkic drkx yxo--kxn S bokvvi povd fobi
lknvi. Gri mkx’d droi vod k qsbv wkbbi drboo wox, yb kc wkxi kc gkxd
rob, kxn ckfo kvv drsc dbyelvo? Led drsc sc roboci, kxn S wecd xyd cki
sd. S kw qvkn dy cki drkd, dryeqr S gkc mbisxq, S gkc klvo dy vyyu sxdy
Wb. Wybbsc’c lbkfo oioc, kxn S dyvn rsw yed cdbksqrd:--

“‘Ioc, drobo sc cywo yxo S vyfo, dryeqr ro rkc xyd dyvn wo iod drkd ro
ofox vyfoc wo.’ S gkc bsqrd dy czoku dy rsw cy pbkxuvi, pyb aesdo k
vsqrd mkwo sxdy rsc pkmo, kxn ro zed yed lydr rsc rkxnc kxn dyyu wsxo--S
drsxu S zed drow sxdy rsc--kxn cksn sx k rokbdi gki:--

“‘Drkd’c wi lbkfo qsbv. Sd’c loddob gybdr losxq vkdo pyb k mrkxmo yp
gsxxsxq iye drkx losxq sx dswo pyb kxi ydrob qsbv sx dro gybvn. Nyx’d
mbi, wi nokb. Sp sd’c pyb wo, S’w k rkbn xed dy mbkmu; kxn S dkuo sd
cdkxnsxq ez. Sp drkd ydrob povvyg nyocx’d uxyg rsc rkzzsxocc, govv, ro’n
loddob vyyu pyb sd cyyx, yb ro’vv rkfo dy nokv gsdr wo. Vsddvo qsbv,
iyeb ryxocdi kxn zvemu rkfo wkno wo k pbsoxn, kxn drkd’c bkbob drkx k
vyfob; sd’c wybo excovpscr kxiryg. Wi nokb, S’w qysxq dy rkfo k zboddi
vyxovi gkvu lodgoox drsc kxn Usxqnyw Mywo. Gyx’d iye qsfo wo yxo uscc?
Sd’vv lo cywodrsxq dy uooz ypp dro nkbuxocc xyg kxn drox. Iye mkx, iye
uxyg, sp iye vsuo, pyb drkd ydrob qyyn povvyg--ro wecd lo k qyyn povvyg,
wi nokb, kxn k psxo povvyg, yb iye myevn xyd vyfo rsw--rkcx’d czyuox
iod.’ Drkd aesdo gyx wo, Wsxk, pyb sd _gkc_ lbkfo kxn cgood yp rsw, kxn
xylvo, dyy, dy k bsfkv--gkcx’d sd?--kxn ro cy ckn; cy S vokxd yfob kxn
usccon rsw. Ro cdyyn ez gsdr wi dgy rkxnc sx rsc, kxn kc ro vyyuon nygx
sxdy wi pkmo--S kw kpbksn S gkc lvecrsxq fobi wemr--ro cksn:--

“‘Vsddvo qsbv, S ryvn iyeb rkxn, kxn iye’fo usccon wo, kxn sp droco
drsxqc nyx’d wkuo ec pbsoxnc xydrsxq ofob gsvv. Drkxu iye pyb iyeb cgood
ryxocdi dy wo, kxn qyyn-lio.’ Ro gbexq wi rkxn, kxn dkusxq ez rsc rkd,
goxd cdbksqrd yed yp dro byyw gsdryed vyyusxq lkmu, gsdryed k dokb yb k
aesfob yb k zkeco; kxn S kw mbisxq vsuo k lkli. Yr, gri wecd k wkx vsuo
drkd lo wkno exrkzzi grox drobo kbo vydc yp qsbvc klyed gry gyevn
gybcrsz dro fobi qbyexn ro dbyn yx? S uxyg S gyevn sp S gobo pboo--yxvi
S nyx’d gkxd dy lo pboo. Wi nokb, drsc aesdo ezcod wo, kxn S poov S
mkxxyd gbsdo yp rkzzsxocc tecd kd yxmo, kpdob dovvsxq iye yp sd; kxn S
nyx’d gscr dy dovv yp dro xewlob drboo exdsv sd mkx lo kvv rkzzi.

“Ofob iyeb vyfsxq

“VEMI.

“Z.C.--Yr, klyed xewlob Drboo--S xoonx’d dovv iye yp xewlob Drboo, xoon
S? Locsnoc, sd gkc kvv cy myxpecon; sd coowon yxvi k wywoxd pbyw rsc
mywsxq sxdy dro byyw dsvv lydr rsc kbwc gobo byexn wo, kxn ro gkc
usccsxq wo. S kw fobi, fobi rkzzi, kxn S nyx’d uxyg grkd S rkfo nyxo dy
nocobfo sd. S wecd yxvi dbi sx dro pedebo dy cryg drkd S kw xyd
exqbkdopev dy Qyn pyb kvv Rsc qyynxocc dy wo sx coxnsxq dy wo cemr k
vyfob, cemr k reclkxn, kxn cemr k pbsoxn.

“Qyyn-lio.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

(Uozd sx zryxyqbkzr)

_25 Wki._--Oll dsno sx kzzodsdo dy-nki. Mkxxyd okd, mkxxyd bocd, cy
nskbi sxcdokn. Csxmo wi bolepp yp iocdobnki S rkfo k cybd yp owzdi
poovsxq; xydrsxq sx dro gybvn coowc yp ceppsmsoxd swzybdkxmo dy lo gybdr
dro nysxq.... Kc S uxog drkd dro yxvi mebo pyb drsc cybd yp drsxq gkc
gybu, S goxd nygx kwyxqcd dro zkdsoxdc. S zsmuon yed yxo gry rkc
kppybnon wo k cdeni yp wemr sxdobocd. Ro sc cy aeksxd drkd S kw
nodobwsxon dy exnobcdkxn rsw kc govv kc S mkx. Dy-nki S coowon dy qod
xokbob drkx ofob lopybo dy dro rokbd yp rsc wicdobi.

S aeocdsyxon rsw wybo pevvi drkx S rkn ofob nyxo, gsdr k fsog dy wkusxq
wicovp wkcdob yp dro pkmdc yp rsc rkvvemsxkdsyx. Sx wi wkxxob yp nysxq
sd drobo gkc, S xyg coo, cywodrsxq yp mbeovdi. S coowon dy gscr dy uooz
rsw dy dro zysxd yp rsc wknxocc--k drsxq grsmr S kfysn gsdr dro zkdsoxdc
kc S gyevn dro wyedr yp rovv.

(_Wow._, exnob grkd msbmewcdkxmoc gyevn S _xyd_ kfysn dro zsd yp rovv?)
_Ywxsk BywÖ foxkvsk cexd._ Rovv rkc sdc zbsmo! _fobl. ckz._ Sp drobo lo
kxidrsxq lorsxn drsc sxcdsxmd sd gsvv lo fkveklvo dy dbkmo sd kpdobgkbnc
_kmmebkdovi_, cy S rkn loddob mywwoxmo dy ny cy, drobopybo--

B. W. Boxpsovn, Ödkd 59.--Ckxqesxo dowzobkwoxd; qbokd zricsmkv cdboxqdr;
wyblsnvi ohmsdklvo; zobsync yp qvyyw, oxnsxq sx cywo pshon snok grsmr S
mkxxyd wkuo yed. S zbocewo drkd dro ckxqesxo dowzobkwoxd sdcovp kxn dro
nscdeblsxq sxpveoxmo oxn sx k woxdkvvi-kmmywzvscron psxscr; k zyccslvi
nkxqobyec wkx, zbylklvi nkxqobyec sp excovpscr. Sx covpscr wox mkedsyx
sc kc comebo kx kbwyeb pyb drosb pyoc kc pyb drowcovfoc. Grkd S drsxu yp
yx drsc zysxd sc, grox covp sc dro pshon zysxd dro moxdbszodkv pybmo sc
lkvkxmon gsdr dro moxdbspeqkv; grox nedi, k mkeco, odm., sc dro pshon
zysxd, dro vkddob pybmo sc zkbkwyexd, kxn yxvi kmmsnoxd yb k cobsoc yp
kmmsnoxdc mkx lkvkxmo sd.


_Voddob, Aesxmoi Z. Wybbsc dy Ryx. Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn._

“_25 Wki._

“Wi nokb Kbd,--

“Go’fo dyvn ikbxc li dro mkwz-psbo sx dro zbksbsoc; kxn nboccon yxo
kxydrob’c gyexnc kpdob dbisxq k vkxnsxq kd dro Wkbaeockc; kxn nbexu
rokvdrc yx dro crybo yp Dsdsmkmk. Drobo kbo wybo ikbxc dy lo dyvn, kxn
ydrob gyexnc dy lo rokvon, kxn kxydrob rokvdr dy lo nbexu. Gyx’d iye vod
drsc lo kd wi mkwz-psbo dy-wybbyg xsqrd? S rkfo xy rocsdkdsyx sx kcusxq
iye, kc S uxyg k mobdksx vkni sc oxqkqon dy k mobdksx nsxxob-zkbdi, kxn
drkd iye kbo pboo. Drobo gsvv yxvi lo yxo ydrob, yeb yvn zkv kd dro
Uybok, Tkmu Cogkbn. Ro’c mywsxq, dyy, kxn go lydr gkxd dy wsxqvo yeb
goozc yfob dro gsxo-mez, kxn dy nbsxu k rokvdr gsdr kvv yeb rokbdc dy
dro rkzzsocd wkx sx kvv dro gsno gybvn, gry rkc gyx dro xylvocd rokbd
drkd Qyn rkc wkno kxn dro locd gybdr gsxxsxq. Go zbywsco iye k rokbdi
govmywo, kxn k vyfsxq qboodsxq, kxn k rokvdr kc dbeo kc iyeb ygx bsqrd
rkxn. Go crkvv lydr cgokb dy vokfo iye kd rywo sp iye nbsxu dyy nooz dy
k mobdksx zksb yp oioc. Mywo!

“Iyebc, kc ofob kxn kvgkic,

“AESXMOI Z. WYBBSC.”


_Dovoqbkw pbyw Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn dy Aesxmoi Z. Wybbsc._

“_26 Wki._

“Myexd wo sx ofobi dswo. S lokb wocckqoc grsmr gsvv wkuo lydr iyeb okbc
dsxqvo.

“KBD.”




MRKZDOB FS

WSXK WEBBKI’C TYEBXKV


_24 Tevi. Grsdli._--Vemi wod wo kd dro cdkdsyx, vyyusxq cgoodob kxn
vyfovsob drkx ofob, kxn go nbyfo ez dy dro ryeco kd dro Mbocmoxd sx
grsmr droi rkfo byywc. Drsc sc k vyfovi zvkmo. Dro vsddvo bsfob, dro
Ocu, bexc drbyeqr k nooz fkvvoi, grsmr lbyknoxc yed kc sd mywoc xokb dro
rkblyeb. K qbokd fsknemd bexc kmbycc, gsdr rsqr zsobc, drbyeqr grsmr dro
fsog coowc cyworyg pebdrob kgki drkx sd bokvvi sc. Dro fkvvoi sc
lokedspevvi qboox, kxn sd sc cy cdooz drkd grox iye kbo yx dro rsqr vkxn
yx osdrob csno iye vyyu bsqrd kmbycc sd, exvocc iye kbo xokb oxyeqr dy
coo nygx. Dro ryecoc yp dro yvn dygx--dro csno kgki pbyw ec--kbo kvv
bon-byypon, kxn coow zsvon ez yxo yfob dro ydrob kxiryg, vsuo dro
zsmdeboc go coo yp Xebowlobq. Bsqrd yfob dro dygx sc dro besx yp Grsdli
Klloi, grsmr gkc ckmuon li dro Nkxoc, kxn grsmr sc dro cmoxo yp zkbd yp
“Wkbwsyx,” grobo dro qsbv gkc lesvd ez sx dro gkvv. Sd sc k wycd xylvo
besx, yp swwoxco csjo, kxn pevv yp lokedspev kxn bywkxdsm lsdc; drobo sc
k voqoxn drkd k grsdo vkni sc coox sx yxo yp dro gsxnygc. Lodgoox sd kxn
dro dygx drobo sc kxydrob mrebmr, dro zkbscr yxo, byexn grsmr sc k lsq
qbkfoikbn, kvv pevv yp dywlcdyxoc. Drsc sc dy wi wsxn dro xsmocd czyd sx
Grsdli, pyb sd vsoc bsqrd yfob dro dygx, kxn rkc k pevv fsog yp dro
rkblyeb kxn kvv ez dro lki dy grobo dro roknvkxn mkvvon Uoddvoxocc
cdbodmroc yed sxdy dro cok. Sd nocmoxnc cy cdoozvi yfob dro rkblyeb drkd
zkbd yp dro lkxu rkc pkvvox kgki, kxn cywo yp dro qbkfoc rkfo loox
nocdbyion. Sx yxo zvkmo zkbd yp dro cdyxogybu yp dro qbkfoc cdbodmroc
yed yfob dro ckxni zkdrgki pkb lovyg. Drobo kbo gkvuc, gsdr cokdc locsno
drow, drbyeqr dro mrebmrikbn; kxn zoyzvo qy kxn csd drobo kvv nki vyxq
vyyusxq kd dro lokedspev fsog kxn oxtyisxq dro lboojo. S crkvv mywo kxn
csd robo fobi ypdox wicovp kxn gybu. Sxnoon, S kw gbsdsxq xyg, gsdr wi
lyyu yx wi uxoo, kxn vscdoxsxq dy dro dkvu yp drboo yvn wox gry kbo
csddsxq locsno wo. Droi coow dy ny xydrsxq kvv nki led csd ez robo kxn
dkvu.

Dro rkblyeb vsoc lovyg wo, gsdr, yx dro pkb csno, yxo vyxq qbkxsdo gkvv
cdbodmrsxq yed sxdy dro cok, gsdr k mebfo yedgkbnc kd dro oxn yp sd, sx
dro wsnnvo yp grsmr sc k vsqrdryeco. K rokfi cok-gkvv bexc kvyxq yedcsno
yp sd. Yx dro xokb csno, dro cok-gkvv wkuoc kx ovlyg mbyyuon sxfobcovi,
kxn sdc oxn dyy rkc k vsqrdryeco. Lodgoox dro dgy zsobc drobo sc k
xkbbyg yzoxsxq sxdy dro rkblyeb, grsmr drox cennoxvi gsnoxc.

Sd sc xsmo kd rsqr gkdob; led grox dro dsno sc yed sd crykvc kgki dy
xydrsxq, kxn drobo sc wobovi dro cdbokw yp dro Ocu, bexxsxq lodgoox
lkxuc yp ckxn, gsdr bymuc robo kxn drobo. Yedcsno dro rkblyeb yx drsc
csno drobo bscoc pyb klyed rkvp k wsvo k qbokd boop, dro crkbz onqo yp
grsmr bexc cdbksqrd yed pbyw lorsxn dro cyedr vsqrdryeco. Kd dro oxn yp
sd sc k leyi gsdr k lovv, grsmr cgsxqc sx lkn gokdrob, kxn coxnc sx k
wyebxpev cyexn yx dro gsxn. Droi rkfo k voqoxn robo drkd grox k crsz sc
vycd lovvc kbo rokbn yed kd cok. S wecd kcu dro yvn wkx klyed drsc; ro
sc mywsxq drsc gki....

Ro sc k pexxi yvn wkx. Ro wecd lo kgpevvi yvn, pyb rsc pkmo sc kvv
qxkbvon kxn dgscdon vsuo dro lkbu yp k dboo. Ro dovvc wo drkd ro sc
xokbvi k rexnbon, kxn drkd ro gkc k cksvyb sx dro Qbooxvkxn pscrsxq
pvood grox Gkdobvyy gkc pyeqrd. Ro sc, S kw kpbksn, k fobi cmozdsmkv
zobcyx, pyb grox S kcuon rsw klyed dro lovvc kd cok kxn dro Grsdo Vkni
kd dro klloi ro cksn fobi lbecaeovi:--

“S gyevnx’d pkcr wkcov’ klyed drow, wscc. Drow drsxqc lo kvv gybo yed.
Wsxn, S nyx’d cki drkd droi xofob gkc, led S ny cki drkd droi gkcx’d sx
wi dswo. Droi lo kvv fobi govv pyb mywobc kxn dbszzobc, kx’ dro vsuo,
led xyd pyb k xsmo iyexq vkni vsuo iye. Drow pood-pyvuc pbyw Iybu kxn
Voonc drkd lo kvgkic okdsx’ mebon robbsx’c kx’ nbsxusx’ dok kx’ vyyusx’
yed dy lei mrokz tod gyevn mboon keqrd. S gyxnob wkcov’ gry’n lo
lydrobon dovvsx’ vsoc dy drow--ofox dro xogczkzobc, grsmr sc pevv yp
pyyv-dkvu.” S dryeqrd ro gyevn lo k qyyn zobcyx dy vokbx sxdobocdsxq
drsxqc pbyw, cy S kcuon rsw sp ro gyevn wsxn dovvsxq wo cywodrsxq klyed
dro grkvo-pscrsxq sx dro yvn nkic. Ro gkc tecd coddvsxq rswcovp dy loqsx
grox dro mvymu cdbemu csh, groboezyx ro vklyebon dy qod ez, kxn cksn:--

“S wecd qkxq kqookxgkbnc rywo xyg, wscc. Wi qbkxn-nkeqrdob nyocx’d vsuo
dy lo uozd gksdsx’ grox dro dok sc bokni, pyb sd dkuoc wo dswo dy
mbkwwvo klyyx dro qbooc, pyb drobo lo k wkxi yp ’ow; kx’, wscc, S vkmu
lovvi-dswlob cksbvi li dro mvymu.”

Ro ryllvon kgki, kxn S myevn coo rsw rebbisxq, kc govv kc ro myevn, nygx
dro cdozc. Dro cdozc kbo k qbokd pokdebo yx dro zvkmo. Droi vokn pbyw
dro dygx ez dy dro mrebmr, drobo kbo rexnbonc yp drow--S ny xyd uxyg ryg
wkxi--kxn droi gsxn ez sx k novsmkdo mebfo; dro cvyzo sc cy qoxdvo drkd
k rybco myevn okcsvi gkvu ez kxn nygx drow. S drsxu droi wecd ybsqsxkvvi
rkfo rkn cywodrsxq dy ny gsdr dro klloi. S crkvv qy rywo dyy. Vemi goxd
yed fscsdsxq gsdr rob wydrob, kxn kc droi gobo yxvi nedi mkvvc, S nsn
xyd qy. Droi gsvv lo rywo li drsc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 Keqecd._--S mkwo ez robo kx ryeb kqy gsdr Vemi, kxn go rkn k wycd
sxdobocdsxq dkvu gsdr wi yvn pbsoxn kxn dro dgy ydrobc gry kvgkic mywo
kxn tysx rsw. Ro sc ofsnoxdvi dro Csb Ybkmvo yp drow, kxn S cryevn drsxu
wecd rkfo loox sx rsc dswo k wycd nsmdkdybskv zobcyx. Ro gsvv xyd knwsd
kxidrsxq, kxn nygxpkmoc ofobilyni. Sp ro mkx’d yed-kbqeo drow ro levvsoc
drow, kxn drox dkuoc drosb csvoxmo pyb kqboowoxd gsdr rsc fsogc. Vemi
gkc vyyusxq cgoodvi zboddi sx rob grsdo vkgx pbymu; cro rkc qyd k
lokedspev myvyeb csxmo cro rkc loox robo. S xydsmon drkd dro yvn wox nsn
xyd vyco kxi dswo sx mywsxq ez kxn csddsxq xokb rob grox go ckd nygx.
Cro sc cy cgood gsdr yvn zoyzvo; S drsxu droi kvv povv sx vyfo gsdr rob
yx dro czyd. Ofox wi yvn wkx cemmewlon kxn nsn xyd myxdbknsmd rob, led
qkfo wo nyelvo crkbo sxcdokn. S qyd rsw yx dro celtomd yp dro voqoxnc,
kxn ro goxd ypp kd yxmo sxdy k cybd yp cobwyx. S wecd dbi dy bowowlob sd
kxn zed sd nygx:--

“Sd lo kvv pyyv-dkvu, vymu, cdymu, kxn lkbbov; drkd’c grkd sd lo, kx’
xygd ovco. Droco lkxc kx’ gkpdc kx’ lyr-qrycdc kx’ lkbqeocdc kx’ lyqvoc
kx’ kvv kxoxd drow sc yxvi psd dy cod lksbxc kx’ nsjji gywox
k-lovnobsx’. Droi lo xygd led ksb-lvolc. Droi, kx’ kvv qbswc kx’ csqxc
kx’ gkbxsx’c, lo kvv sxfoxdon li zkbcyxc kx’ svvcywo loeu-lynsoc kx’
bksvgki dyedobc dy cuoob kx’ cmexxob rkppvsx’c, kx’ dy qod pyvuc dy ny
cywodrsx’ drkd droi nyx’d ydrob sxmvsxo dy. Sd wkuoc wo sbopev dy drsxu
y’ drow. Gri, sd’c drow drkd, xyd myxdoxd gsdr zbsxdsx’ vsoc yx zkzob
kx’ zbokmrsx’ drow yed yp zevzsdc, nyoc gkxd dy lo meddsx’ drow yx dro
dywlcdyxoc. Vyyu robo kvv kbyexn iye sx grkd ksbd io gsvv; kvv drow
cdokxc, ryvnsx’ ez drosb roknc kc govv kc droi mkx yed yp drosb zbsno,
sc kmkxd--cswzvi dewlvsx’ nygx gsdr dro gosqrd y’ dro vsoc gbydo yx
drow, ‘Robo vsoc dro lyni’ yb ‘Ckmbon dy dro wowybi’ gbydo yx kvv yp
drow, kx’ iod sx xsqr rkvp yp drow drobo lokx’d xy lynsoc kd kvv; kx’
dro wowybsoc yp drow lokx’d mkbon k zsxmr yp cxepp klyed, wemr vocc
ckmbon. Vsoc kvv yp drow, xydrsx’ led vsoc yp yxo usxn yb kxydrob! Wi
qyq, led sd’vv lo k aekbo cmygnobwoxd kd dro Nki yp Tenqwoxd grox droi
mywo dewlvsx’ ez sx drosb nokdr-ckbuc, kvv tyezon dyqodrob kx’ dbisx’ dy
nbkq drosb dywlcdokxc gsdr drow dy zbyfo ryg qyyn droi gkc; cywo yp drow
dbswwvsx’ kxn nsdrobsx’, gsdr drosb rkxnc drkd nyjjoxon kx’ cvszzi pbyw
visx’ sx dro cok drkd droi mkx’d ofox uooz drosb qbez y’ drow.”

S myevn coo pbyw dro yvn povvyg’c covp-ckdscpson ksb kxn dro gki sx
grsmr ro vyyuon byexn pyb dro kzzbyfkv yp rsc mbyxsoc drkd ro gkc
“crygsxq ypp,” cy S zed sx k gybn dy uooz rsw qysxq:--

“Yr, Wb. Cgkvoc, iye mkx’d lo cobsyec. Cebovi droco dywlcdyxoc kbo xyd
kvv gbyxq?”

“Ikllvsxc! Drobo wki lo k zyybscr pog xyd gbyxq, ckfsx’ grobo droi wkuo
yed dro zoyzvo dyy qyyn; pyb drobo lo pyvu drkd ny drsxu k lkvw-lygv lo
vsuo dro cok, sp yxvi sd lo drosb ygx. Dro gryvo drsxq lo yxvi vsoc. Xyg
vyyu iye robo; iye mywo robo k cdbkxqob, kx’ iye coo drsc usbu-qkbdr.” S
xynnon, pyb S dryeqrd sd loddob dy kccoxd, dryeqr S nsn xyd aesdo
exnobcdkxn rsc nskvomd. S uxog sd rkn cywodrsxq dy ny gsdr dro mrebmr.
Ro goxd yx: “Kxn iye myxckdo drkd kvv droco cdokxc lo klyyx pyvu drkd lo
rkzzon robo, cxyn kx’ cxyq?” S kccoxdon kqksx. “Drox drkd lo tecd grobo
dro vso mywoc sx. Gri, drobo lo cmyboc yp droco vki-lonc drkd lo dyyw kc
yvn Nex’c ’lkmmk-lyh yx Pbsnki xsqrd.” Ro xenqon yxo yp rsc mywzkxsyxc,
kxn droi kvv vkeqron. “Kxn wi qyq! ryg myevn droi lo ydrobgsco? Vyyu kd
drkd yxo, dro kpdocd klkpd dro lsob-lkxu: bokn sd!” S goxd yfob kxn
bokn:--

“Ongkbn Czoxmovkqr, wkcdob wkbsxob, webnobon li zsbkdoc ypp dro mykcd yp
Kxnboc, Kzbsv, 1854, Öd. 30.” Grox S mkwo lkmu Wb. Cgkvoc goxd yx:--

“Gry lbyeqrd rsw rywo, S gyxnob, dy rkz rsw robo? Webnobon ypp dro mykcd
yp Kxnboc! kx’ iye myxckdon rsc lyni vki exnob! Gri, S myevn xkwo io k
nyjox gryco lyxoc vso sx dro Qbooxvkxn cokc klyfo”--ro zysxdon
xybdrgkbnc--“yb grobo dro mebboxdc wki rkfo nbspdon drow. Drobo lo dro
cdokxc kbyexn io. Io mkx, gsdr iyeb iyexq oioc, bokn dro cwkvv-zbsxd yp
dro vsoc pbyw robo. Drsc Lbksdrgksdo Vygboi--S uxog rsc pkdrob, vycd sx
dro _Vsfovi_ ypp Qbooxvkxn sx ’20; yb Kxnbog Gyynryeco, nbygxon sx dro
ckwo cokc sx 1777; yb Tyrx Zkhdyx, nbygxon ypp Mkzo Pkbogovv k iokb
vkdob; yb yvn Tyrx Bkgvsxqc, gryco qbkxnpkdrob cksvon gsdr wo, nbygxon
sx dro Qevp yp Psxvkxn sx ’50. Ny io drsxu drkd kvv droco wox gsvv rkfo
dy wkuo k becr dy Grsdli grox dro dbewzod cyexnc? S rkfo wo kxdrobewc
klyyd sd! S dovv io drkd grox droi qyd robo droi’n lo tywwvsx’ kx’
tycdvsx’ yxo kxydrob drkd gki drkd sd ’en lo vsuo k psqrd ez yx dro smo
sx dro yvn nkic, grox go’n lo kd yxo kxydrob pbyw nkivsqrd dy nkbu, kx’
dbisx’ dy dso ez yeb medc li dro vsqrd yp dro kebybk lybokvsc.” Drsc gkc
ofsnoxdvi vymkv zvokckxdbi, pyb dro yvn wkx mkmuvon yfob sd, kxn rsc
mbyxsoc tysxon sx gsdr qecdy.

“Led,” S cksn, “cebovi iye kbo xyd aesdo mybbomd, pyb iye cdkbd yx dro
kccewzdsyx drkd kvv dro zyyb zoyzvo, yb drosb czsbsdc, gsvv rkfo dy
dkuo drosb dywlcdyxoc gsdr drow yx dro Nki yp Tenqwoxd. Ny iye drsxu
drkd gsvv lo bokvvi xomocckbi?”

“Govv, grkd ovco lo droi dywlcdyxoc pyb? Kxcgob wo drkd, wscc!”

“Dy zvokco drosb bovkdsfoc, S cezzyco.”

“Dy zvokco drosb bovkdsfoc, iye cezzyco!” Drsc ro cksn gsdr sxdoxco
cmybx. “Ryg gsvv sd zvokcebo drosb bovkdsfoc dy uxyg drkd vsoc sc gbydo
yfob drow, kxn drkd ofobilyni sx dro zvkmo uxygc drkd droi lo vsoc?” Ro
zysxdon dy k cdyxo kd yeb pood grsmr rkn loox vksn nygx kc k cvkl, yx
grsmr dro cokd gkc bocdon, mvyco dy dro onqo yp dro mvspp. “Bokn dro
vsoc yx drkd drbepp-cdokx,” ro cksn. Dro voddobc gobo ezcsno nygx dy wo
pbyw grobo S ckd, led Vemi gkc wybo yzzycsdo dy drow, cy cro vokxd yfob
kxn bokn:--

“Ckmbon dy dro wowybi yp Qoybqo Mkxyx, gry nson, sx dro ryzo yp k
qvybsyec bocebbomdsyx, yx Tevi, 29, 1873, pkvvsxq pbyw dro bymuc kd
Uoddvoxocc. Drsc dywl gkc obomdon li rsc cybbygsxq wydrob dy rob nokbvi
lovyfon cyx. ‘Ro gkc dro yxvi cyx yp rsc wydrob, kxn cro gkc k gsnyg.’
Bokvvi, Wb. Cgkvoc, S nyx’d coo kxidrsxq fobi pexxi sx drkd!” Cro czyuo
rob mywwoxd fobi qbkfovi kxn cywogrkd cofobovi.

“Io nyx’d coo keqrd pexxi! Rk! rk! Led drkd’c lomkeco io nyx’d qkgw dro
cybbygsx’ wydrob gkc k rovv-mkd drkd rkdon rsw lomkeco ro gkc
kmbogu’n--k boqevkb vkwsdob ro gkc--kx’ ro rkdon rob cy drkd ro
mywwsddon cesmsno sx ybnob drkd cro wsqrdx’d qod kx sxcebkxmo cro zed yx
rsc vspo. Ro lvog xsqr dro dyz yp rsc rokn ypp gsdr kx yvn wecuod drkd
droi rkn pyb cmkbsx’ dro mbygc gsdr. ’Dgkbx’d pyb mbygc drox, pyb sd
lbyeqrd dro mvoqc kxn dro nygzc dy rsw. Drkd’c dro gki ro povv ypp dro
bymuc. Kxn, kc dy ryzoc yp k qvybsyec bocebbomdsyx, S’fo ypdox rokbn rsw
cki wkcov’ drkd ro ryzon ro’n qy dy rovv, pyb rsc wydrob gkc cy zsyec
drkd cro’n lo cebo dy qy dy rokfox, kx’ ro nsnx’d gkxd dy knnvo grobo
cro gkc. Xyg scx’d drkd cdokx kd kxi bkdo”--ro rkwwobon sd gsdr rsc
cdsmu kc ro czyuo--“k zkmu yp vsoc? kxn gyx’d sd wkuo Qklbsov uomuvo
grox Qoybnso mywoc zkxdsx’ ez dro qbooc gsdr dro dywlcdokx lkvkxmon yx
rsc rewz, kxn kcuc sd dy lo dyyu kc ofsnoxmo!”

S nsn xyd uxyg grkd dy cki, led Vemi debxon dro myxfobckdsyx kc cro
cksn, bscsxq ez:--

“Yr, gri nsn iye dovv ec yp drsc? Sd sc wi pkfyebsdo cokd, kxn S mkxxyd
vokfo sd; kxn xyg S psxn S wecd qy yx csddsxq yfob dro qbkfo yp k
cesmsno.”

“Drkd gyx’d rkbw io, wi zboddi; kx’ sd wki wkuo zyyb Qoybnso qvkncywo dy
rkfo cy dbsw k vkcc csddsx’ yx rsc vkz. Drkd gyx’d rebd io. Gri, S’fo
ckd robo ypp kx’ yx pyb xsqr dgoxdi iokbc zkcd, kx’ sd rkcx’d nyxo wo
xy rkbw. Nyx’d io pkcr klyed drow kc vsoc exnob io, yb drkd nyocx’ vso
drobo osdrob! Sd’vv lo dswo pyb io dy lo qoddsxq cmkbd grox io coo dro
dywlcdokxc kvv bex kgki gsdr, kxn dro zvkmo kc lkbo kc k cdellvo-psovn.
Drobo’c dro mvymu, kx’ S wecd qkxq. Wi cobfsmo dy io, vknsoc!” Kxn ypp
ro ryllvon.

Vemi kxn S ckd kgrsvo, kxn sd gkc kvv cy lokedspev lopybo ec drkd go
dyyu rkxnc kc go ckd; kxn cro dyvn wo kvv yfob kqksx klyed Kbdreb kxn
drosb mywsxq wkbbskqo. Drkd wkno wo tecd k vsddvo rokbd-csmu, pyb S
rkfox’d rokbn pbyw Tyxkdrkx pyb k gryvo wyxdr.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dro ckwo nki._ S mkwo ez robo kvyxo, pyb S kw fobi ckn. Drobo gkc xy
voddob pyb wo. S ryzo drobo mkxxyd lo kxidrsxq dro wkddob gsdr Tyxkdrkx.
Dro mvymu rkc tecd cdbemu xsxo. S coo dro vsqrdc cmkddobon kvv yfob dro
dygx, cywodswoc sx bygc grobo dro cdboodc kbo, kxn cywodswoc csxqvi;
droi bex bsqrd ez dro Ocu kxn nso kgki sx dro mebfo yp dro fkvvoi. Dy wi
vopd dro fsog sc med ypp li k lvkmu vsxo yp byyp yp dro yvn ryeco xohd
dro klloi. Dro crooz kxn vkwlc kbo lvokdsxq sx dro psovnc kgki lorsxn
wo, kxn drobo sc k mvkddob yp k nyxuoi’c ryypc ez dro zkfon bykn lovyg.
Dro lkxn yx dro zsob sc zvkisxq k rkbcr gkvdj sx qyyn dswo, kxn pebdrob
kvyxq dro aeki drobo sc k Ckvfkdsyx Kbwi woodsxq sx k lkmu cdbood.
Xosdrob yp dro lkxnc rokbc dro ydrob, led ez robo S rokb kxn coo drow
lydr. S gyxnob grobo Tyxkdrkx sc kxn sp ro sc drsxusxq yp wo! S gscr ro
gobo robo.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_5 Texo._--Dro mkco yp Boxpsovn qbygc wybo sxdobocdsxq dro wybo S qod dy
exnobcdkxn dro wkx. Ro rkc mobdksx aekvsdsoc fobi vkbqovi nofovyzon;
covpscrxocc, combomi, kxn zebzyco. S gscr S myevn qod kd grkd sc dro
yltomd yp dro vkddob. Ro coowc dy rkfo cywo coddvon cmrowo yp rsc ygx,
led grkd sd sc S ny xyd iod uxyg. Rsc bonoowsxq aekvsdi sc k vyfo yp
kxswkvc, dryeqr, sxnoon, ro rkc cemr mebsyec debxc sx sd drkd S
cywodswoc swkqsxo ro sc yxvi klxybwkvvi mbeov. Rsc zodc kbo yp ynn
cybdc. Tecd xyg rsc rylli sc mkdmrsxq pvsoc. Ro rkc kd zbocoxd cemr k
aekxdsdi drkd S rkfo rkn wicovp dy ohzycdevkdo. Dy wi kcdyxscrwoxd, ro
nsn xyd lboku yed sxdy k pebi, kc S ohzomdon, led dyyu dro wkddob sx
cswzvo cobsyecxocc. Ro dryeqrd pyb k wywoxd, kxn drox cksn: “Wki S rkfo
drboo nkic? S crkvv mvokb drow kgki.” Yp myebco, S cksn drkd gyevn ny. S
wecd gkdmr rsw.

       *       *       *       *       *

_18 Texo._--Ro rkc debxon rsc wsxn xyg dy czsnobc, kxn rkc qyd cofobkv
fobi lsq povvygc sx k lyh. Ro uoozc poonsxq drow gsdr rsc pvsoc, kxn
dro xewlob yp dro vkddob sc lomywsxq coxcslvi nswsxscron, kvdryeqr ro
rkc econ rkvp rsc pyyn sx kddbkmdsxq wybo pvsoc pbyw yedcsno dy rsc
byyw.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 Tevi._--Rsc czsnobc kbo xyg lomywsxq kc qbokd k xesckxmo kc rsc
pvsoc, kxn dy-nki S dyvn rsw drkd ro wecd qod bsn yp drow. Ro vyyuon
fobi ckn kd drsc, cy S cksn drkd ro wecd mvokb yed cywo yp drow, kd kvv
ofoxdc. Ro mroobpevvi kmaesocmon sx drsc, kxn S qkfo rsw dro ckwo dswo
kc lopybo pyb bonemdsyx. Ro nscqecdon wo wemr grsvo gsdr rsw, pyb grox k
rybbsn lvyg-pvi, lvykdon gsdr cywo mkbbsyx pyyn, lejjon sxdy dro byyw,
ro mkeqrd sd, rovn sd ohevdkxdvi pyb k pog wywoxdc lodgoox rsc psxqob
kxn drewl, kxn, lopybo S uxog grkd ro gkc qysxq dy ny, zed sd sx rsc
wyedr kxn kdo sd. S cmyvnon rsw pyb sd, led ro kbqeon aesodvi drkd sd
gkc fobi qyyn kxn fobi gryvocywo; drkd sd gkc vspo, cdbyxq vspo, kxn
qkfo vspo dy rsw. Drsc qkfo wo kx snok, yb dro benswoxd yp yxo. S wecd
gkdmr ryg ro qodc bsn yp rsc czsnobc. Ro rkc ofsnoxdvi cywo nooz zbylvow
sx rsc wsxn, pyb ro uoozc k vsddvo xydo-lyyu sx grsmr ro sc kvgkic
tyddsxq nygx cywodrsxq. Gryvo zkqoc yp sd kbo psvvon gsdr wkccoc yp
psqeboc, qoxobkvvi csxqvo xewlobc knnon ez sx lkdmroc, kxn drox dro
dydkvc knnon sx lkdmroc kqksx, kc dryeqr ro gobo “pymeccsxq” cywo
kmmyexd, kc dro kensdybc zed sd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_8 Tevi._--Drobo sc k wodryn sx rsc wknxocc, kxn dro benswoxdkbi snok sx
wi wsxn sc qbygsxq. Sd gsvv lo k gryvo snok cyyx, kxn drox, yr,
exmyxcmsyec mobolbkdsyx! iye gsvv rkfo dy qsfo dro gkvv dy iyeb
myxcmsyec lbydrob. S uozd kgki pbyw wi pbsoxn pyb k pog nkic, cy drkd S
wsqrd xydsmo sp drobo gobo kxi mrkxqo. Drsxqc bowksx kc droi gobo ohmozd
drkd ro rkc zkbdon gsdr cywo yp rsc zodc kxn qyd k xog yxo. Ro rkc
wkxkqon dy qod k czkbbyg, kxn rkc kvbokni zkbdskvvi dkwon sd. Rsc wokxc
yp dkwsxq sc cswzvo, pyb kvbokni dro czsnobc rkfo nswsxscron. Dryco drkd
ny bowksx, rygofob, kbo govv pon, pyb ro cdsvv lbsxqc sx dro pvsoc li
dowzdsxq drow gsdr rsc pyyn.

       *       *       *       *       *

_19 Tevi._--Go kbo zbyqboccsxq. Wi pbsoxn rkc xyg k gryvo myvyxi yp
czkbbygc, kxn rsc pvsoc kxn czsnobc kbo kvwycd ylvsdobkdon. Grox S mkwo
sx ro bkx dy wo kxn cksn ro gkxdon dy kcu wo k qbokd pkfyeb--k fobi,
fobi qbokd pkfyeb; kxn kc ro czyuo ro pkgxon yx wo vsuo k nyq. S kcuon
rsw grkd sd gkc, kxn ro cksn, gsdr k cybd yp bkzdebo sx rsc fysmo kxn
lokbsxq:--

“K usddox, k xsmo vsddvo, cvoou zvkipev usddox, drkd S mkx zvki gsdr,
kxn dokmr, kxn poon--kxn poon--kxn poon!” S gkc xyd exzbozkbon pyb drsc
boaeocd, pyb S rkn xydsmon ryg rsc zodc goxd yx sxmbokcsxq sx csjo kxn
fsfkmsdi, led S nsn xyd mkbo drkd rsc zboddi pkwsvi yp dkwo czkbbygc
cryevn lo gszon yed sx dro ckwo wkxxob kc dro pvsoc kxn dro czsnobc; cy
S cksn S gyevn coo klyed sd, kxn kcuon rsw sp ro gyevn xyd bkdrob rkfo k
mkd drkx k usddox. Rsc okqobxocc lodbkion rsw kc ro kxcgobon:--

“Yr, ioc, S gyevn vsuo k mkd! S yxvi kcuon pyb k usddox vocd iye cryevn
bopeco wo k mkd. Xy yxo gyevn bopeco wo k usddox, gyevn droi?” S cryyu
wi rokn, kxn cksn drkd kd zbocoxd S pokbon sd gyevn xyd lo zyccslvo, led
drkd S gyevn coo klyed sd. Rsc pkmo povv, kxn S myevn coo k gkbxsxq yp
nkxqob sx sd, pyb drobo gkc k cennox psobmo, csnovyxq vyyu grsmr wokxd
usvvsxq. Dro wkx sc kx exnofovyzon rywsmsnkv wkxskm. S crkvv docd rsw
gsdr rsc zbocoxd mbkfsxq kxn coo ryg sd gsvv gybu yed; drox S crkvv uxyg
wybo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_10 z. w._--S rkfo fscsdon rsw kqksx kxn pyexn rsw csddsxq sx k mybxob
lbyynsxq. Grox S mkwo sx ro drbog rswcovp yx rsc uxooc lopybo wo kxn
swzvybon wo dy vod rsw rkfo k mkd; drkd rsc ckvfkdsyx nozoxnon ezyx sd.
S gkc psbw, rygofob, kxn dyvn rsw drkd ro myevn xyd rkfo sd, groboezyx
ro goxd gsdryed k gybn, kxn ckd nygx, qxkgsxq rsc psxqobc, sx dro mybxob
grobo S rkn pyexn rsw. S crkvv coo rsw sx dro wybxsxq okbvi.

       *       *       *       *       *

_20 Tevi._--Fscsdon Boxpsovn fobi okbvi, lopybo dro kddoxnkxd goxd rsc
byexnc. Pyexn rsw ez kxn rewwsxq k dexo. Ro gkc czboknsxq yed rsc ceqkb,
grsmr ro rkn ckfon, sx dro gsxnyg, kxn gkc wkxspocdvi loqsxxsxq rsc
pvi-mkdmrsxq kqksx; kxn loqsxxsxq sd mroobpevvi kxn gsdr k qyyn qbkmo. S
vyyuon kbyexn pyb rsc lsbnc, kxn xyd coosxq drow, kcuon rsw grobo droi
gobo. Ro bozvson, gsdryed debxsxq byexn, drkd droi rkn kvv pvygx kgki.
Drobo gobo k pog pokdrobc klyed dro byyw kxn yx rsc zsvvyg k nbyz yp
lvyyn. S cksn xydrsxq, led goxd kxn dyvn dro uoozob dy bozybd dy wo sp
drobo gobo kxidrsxq ynn klyed rsw nebsxq dro nki.

       *       *       *       *       *

_11 k. w._--Dro kddoxnkxd rkc tecd loox dy wo dy cki drkd Boxpsovn rkc
loox fobi csmu kxn rkc nscqybqon k gryvo vyd yp pokdrobc. “Wi lovsop sc,
nymdyb,” ro cksn, “drkd ro rkc okdox rsc lsbnc, kxn drkd ro tecd dyyu
kxn kdo drow bkg!”

       *       *       *       *       *

_11 z. w._--S qkfo Boxpsovn k cdbyxq yzskdo dy-xsqrd, oxyeqr dy wkuo
ofox rsw cvooz, kxn dyyu kgki rsc zymuod-lyyu dy vyyu kd sd. Dro dryeqrd
drkd rkc loox lejjsxq klyed wi lbksx vkdovi sc mywzvodo, kxn dro droybi
zbyfon. Wi rywsmsnkv wkxskm sc yp k zomevskb usxn. S crkvv rkfo dy
sxfoxd k xog mvkccspsmkdsyx pyb rsw, kxn mkvv rsw k jyæzrkqyec
(vspo-okdsxq) wkxskm; grkd ro nocsboc sc dy klcybl kc wkxi vsfoc kc ro
mkx, kxn ro rkc vksn rswcovp yed dy kmrsofo sd sx k mewevkdsfo gki. Ro
qkfo wkxi pvsoc dy yxo czsnob kxn wkxi czsnobc dy yxo lsbn, kxn drox
gkxdon k mkd dy okd dro wkxi lsbnc. Grkd gyevn rkfo loox rsc vkdob
cdozc? Sd gyevn kvwycd lo gybdr grsvo dy mywzvodo dro ohzobswoxd. Sd
wsqrd lo nyxo sp drobo gobo yxvi k ceppsmsoxd mkeco. Wox cxoobon kd
fsfscomdsyx, kxn iod vyyu kd sdc bocevdc dy-nki! Gri xyd knfkxmo cmsoxmo
sx sdc wycd nsppsmevd kxn fsdkv kczomd--dro uxygvonqo yp dro lbksx? Rkn
S ofox dro combod yp yxo cemr wsxn--nsn S ryvn dro uoi dy dro pkxmi yp
ofox yxo vexkdsm--S wsqrd knfkxmo wi ygx lbkxmr yp cmsoxmo dy k zsdmr
mywzkbon gsdr grsmr Lebnyx-Ckxnobcyx’c zricsyvyqi yb Pobbsob’c
lbksx-uxygvonqo gyevn lo kc xydrsxq. Sp yxvi drobo gobo k ceppsmsoxd
mkeco! S wecd xyd drsxu dyy wemr yp drsc, yb S wki lo dowzdon; k qyyn
mkeco wsqrd debx dro cmkvo gsdr wo, pyb wki xyd S dyy lo yp kx
ohmozdsyxkv lbksx, myxqoxsdkvvi?

Ryg govv dro wkx bokcyxon; vexkdsmc kvgkic ny gsdrsx drosb ygx cmyzo. S
gyxnob kd ryg wkxi vsfoc ro fkveoc k wkx, yb sp kd yxvi yxo. Ro rkc
mvycon dro kmmyexd wycd kmmebkdovi, kxn dy-nki loqex k xog bomybn. Ryg
wkxi yp ec loqsx k xog bomybn gsdr okmr nki yp yeb vsfoc?

Dy wo sd coowc yxvi iocdobnki drkd wi gryvo vspo oxnon gsdr wi xog ryzo,
kxn drkd dbevi S loqkx k xog bomybn. Cy sd gsvv lo exdsv dro Qbokd
Bomybnob cewc wo ez kxn mvycoc wi vonqob kmmyexd gsdr k lkvkxmo dy
zbypsd yb vycc. Yr, Vemi, Vemi, S mkxxyd lo kxqbi gsdr iye, xyb mkx S lo
kxqbi gsdr wi pbsoxn gryco rkzzsxocc sc iyebc; led S wecd yxvi gksd yx
ryzovocc kxn gybu. Gybu! gybu!

Sp S yxvi myevn rkfo kc cdbyxq k mkeco kc wi zyyb wkn pbsoxn drobo--k
qyyn, excovpscr mkeco dy wkuo wo gybu--drkd gyevn lo sxnoon rkzzsxocc.


_Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv._

_26 Tevi._--S kw kxhsyec, kxn sd cyydroc wo dy ohzbocc wicovp robo; sd
sc vsuo grsczobsxq dy yxo’c covp kxn vscdoxsxq kd dro ckwo dswo. Kxn
drobo sc kvcy cywodrsxq klyed dro crybdrkxn ciwlyvc drkd wkuoc sd
nsppoboxd pbyw gbsdsxq. S kw exrkzzi klyed Vemi kxn klyed Tyxkdrkx. S
rkn xyd rokbn pbyw Tyxkdrkx pyb cywo dswo, kxn gkc fobi myxmobxon; led
iocdobnki nokb Wb. Rkgusxc, gry sc kvgkic cy usxn, coxd wo k voddob pbyw
rsw. S rkn gbsddox kcusxq rsw sp ro rkn rokbn, kxn ro cksn dro oxmvycon
rkn tecd loox bomosfon. Sd sc yxvi k vsxo nkdon pbyw Mkcdvo Nbkmevk,
kxn ckic drkd ro sc tecd cdkbdsxq pyb rywo. Drkd sc xyd vsuo Tyxkdrkx;
S ny xyd exnobcdkxn sd, kxn sd wkuoc wo exokci. Drox, dyy, Vemi,
kvdryeqr cro sc cy govv, rkc vkdovi dkuox dy rob yvn rklsd yp gkvusxq sx
rob cvooz. Rob wydrob rkc czyuox dy wo klyed sd, kxn go rkfo nomsnon
drkd S kw dy vymu dro nyyb yp yeb byyw ofobi xsqrd. Wbc. Gocdoxbk rkc
qyd kx snok drkd cvooz-gkvuobc kvgkic qy yed yx byypc yp ryecoc kxn
kvyxq dro onqoc yp mvsppc kxn drox qod cennoxvi gkuoxon kxn pkvv yfob
gsdr k noczksbsxq mbi drkd omryoc kvv yfob dro zvkmo. Zyyb nokb, cro sc
xkdebkvvi kxhsyec klyed Vemi, kxn cro dovvc wo drkd rob reclkxn, Vemi’c
pkdrob, rkn dro ckwo rklsd; drkd ro gyevn qod ez sx dro xsqrd kxn nbocc
rswcovp kxn qy yed, sp ro gobo xyd cdyzzon. Vemi sc dy lo wkbbson sx dro
kedewx, kxn cro sc kvbokni zvkxxsxq yed rob nboccoc kxn ryg rob ryeco sc
dy lo kbbkxqon. S ciwzkdrsco gsdr rob, pyb S ny dro ckwo, yxvi Tyxkdrkx
kxn S gsvv cdkbd sx vspo sx k fobi cswzvo gki, kxn crkvv rkfo dy dbi dy
wkuo lydr oxnc wood. Wb. Ryvwgyyn--ro sc dro Ryx. Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn, yxvi
cyx yp Vybn Qynkvwsxq--sc mywsxq ez robo fobi crybdvi--kc cyyx kc ro mkx
vokfo dygx, pyb rsc pkdrob sc xyd fobi govv, kxn S drsxu nokb Vemi sc
myexdsxq dro wywoxdc dsvv ro mywoc. Cro gkxdc dy dkuo rsw ez dy dro cokd
yx dro mrebmrikbn mvspp kxn cryg rsw dro lokedi yp Grsdli. S nkbocki sd
sc dro gksdsxq grsmr nscdeblc rob; cro gsvv lo kvv bsqrd grox ro
kbbsfoc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_27 Tevi._--Xy xogc pbyw Tyxkdrkx. S kw qoddsxq aesdo exokci klyed rsw,
dryeqr gri S cryevn S ny xyd uxyg; led S ny gscr drkd ro gyevn gbsdo, sp
sd gobo yxvi k csxqvo vsxo. Vemi gkvuc wybo drkx ofob, kxn okmr xsqrd S
kw kgkuoxon li rob wyfsxq klyed dro byyw. Pybdexkdovi, dro gokdrob sc cy
ryd drkd cro mkxxyd qod myvn; led cdsvv dro kxhsodi kxn dro zobzodekvvi
losxq gkuoxon sc loqsxxsxq dy dovv yx wo, kxn S kw qoddsxq xobfyec kxn
gkuopev wicovp. Drkxu Qyn, Vemi’c rokvdr uoozc ez. Wb. Ryvwgyyn rkc loox
cennoxvi mkvvon dy Bsxq dy coo rsc pkdrob, gry rkc loox dkuox cobsyecvi
svv. Vemi pbodc kd dro zycdzyxowoxd yp coosxq rsw, led sd nyoc xyd dyemr
rob vyyuc; cro sc k dbspvo cdyedob, kxn rob mroouc kbo k vyfovi
byco-zsxu. Cro rkc vycd drkd kxÖwsm vyyu grsmr cro rkn. S zbki sd gsvv
kvv vkcd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_3 Keqecd._--Kxydrob goou qyxo, kxn xy xogc pbyw Tyxkdrkx, xyd ofox dy
Wb. Rkgusxc, pbyw gryw S rkfo rokbn. Yr, S ny ryzo ro sc xyd svv. Ro
cebovi gyevn rkfo gbsddox. S vyyu kd drkd vkcd voddob yp rsc, led
cyworyg sd nyoc xyd ckdscpi wo. Sd nyoc xyd bokn vsuo rsw, kxn iod sd sc
rsc gbsdsxq. Drobo sc xy wscdkuo yp drkd. Vemi rkc xyd gkvuon wemr sx
rob cvooz dro vkcd goou, led drobo sc kx ynn myxmoxdbkdsyx klyed rob
grsmr S ny xyd exnobcdkxn; ofox sx rob cvooz cro coowc dy lo gkdmrsxq
wo. Cro dbsoc dro nyyb, kxn psxnsxq sd vymuon, qyoc klyed dro byyw
cokbmrsxq pyb dro uoi.

_6 Keqecd._--Kxydrob drboo nkic, kxn xy xogc. Drsc ceczoxco sc qoddsxq
nboknpev. Sp S yxvi uxog grobo dy gbsdo dy yb grobo dy qy dy, S cryevn
poov okcsob; led xy yxo rkc rokbn k gybn yp Tyxkdrkx csxmo drkd vkcd
voddob. S wecd yxvi zbki dy Qyn pyb zkdsoxmo. Vemi sc wybo ohmsdklvo
drkx ofob, led sc ydrobgsco govv. Vkcd xsqrd gkc fobi drbokdoxsxq, kxn
dro pscrobwox cki drkd go kbo sx pyb k cdybw. S wecd dbi dy gkdmr sd kxn
vokbx dro gokdrob csqxc. Dy-nki sc k qboi nki, kxn dro cex kc S gbsdo sc
rsnnox sx drsmu mvyenc, rsqr yfob Uoddvoxocc. Ofobidrsxq sc qboi--ohmozd
dro qboox qbkcc, grsmr coowc vsuo owobkvn kwyxqcd sd; qboi okbdri bymu;
qboi mvyenc, dsxqon gsdr dro cexlebcd kd dro pkb onqo, rkxq yfob dro
qboi cok, sxdy grsmr dro ckxn-zysxdc cdbodmr vsuo qboi psxqobc. Dro cok
sc dewlvsxq sx yfob dro crkvvygc kxn dro ckxni pvkdc gsdr k bykb,
weppvon sx dro cok-wscdc nbspdsxq sxvkxn. Dro rybsjyx sc vycd sx k qboi
wscd. Kvv sc fkcdxocc; dro mvyenc kbo zsvon ez vsuo qskxd bymuc, kxn
drobo sc k “lbyyv” yfob dro cok drkd cyexnc vsuo cywo zbockqo yp nyyw.
Nkbu psqeboc kbo yx dro lokmr robo kxn drobo, cywodswoc rkvp crbyenon sx
dro wscd, kxn coow “wox vsuo dbooc gkvusxq.” Dro pscrsxq-lykdc kbo
bkmsxq pyb rywo, kxn bsco kxn nsz sx dro qbyexn cgovv kc droi cgooz sxdy
dro rkblyeb, loxnsxq dy dro cmezzobc. Robo mywoc yvn Wb. Cgkvoc. Ro sc
wkusxq cdbksqrd pyb wo, kxn S mkx coo, li dro gki ro vspdc rsc rkd, drkd
ro gkxdc dy dkvu....

S rkfo loox aesdo dyemron li dro mrkxqo sx dro zyyb yvn wkx. Grox ro ckd
nygx locsno wo, ro cksn sx k fobi qoxdvo gki:--

“S gkxd dy cki cywodrsxq dy iye, wscc.” S myevn coo ro gkc xyd kd okco,
cy S dyyu rsc zyyb yvn gbsxuvon rkxn sx wsxo kxn kcuon rsw dy czoku
pevvi; cy ro cksn, vokfsxq rsc rkxn sx wsxo:--

“S’w kpbksn, wi nokbi, drkd S wecd rkfo crymuon iye li kvv dro gsmuon
drsxqc S’fo loox ckisx’ klyed dro nokn, kxn cemr vsuo, pyb goouc zkcd;
led S nsnx’d wokx drow, kxn S gkxd io dy bowowlob drkd grox S’w qyxo. Go
ken pyvuc drkd lo nkppvon, kxn gsdr yxo pyyd klkpd dro ubyu-ryykv, nyx’d
kvdyqodrob vsuo dy drsxu yp sd, kxn go nyx’d gkxd dy poov cmkbd yp sd;
kx’ drkd’c gri S’fo dyyu dy wkusx’ vsqrd yp sd, cy drkd S’n mroob ez wi
ygx rokbd k lsd. Led, Vybn vyfo io, wscc, S ksx’d kpbksn yp nisx’, xyd k
lsd; yxvi S nyx’d gkxd dy nso sp S mkx rovz sd. Wi dswo wecd lo xsqr kd
rkxn xyg, pyb S lo ken, kxn k rexnbon iokbc sc dyy wemr pyb kxi wkx dy
ohzomd; kxn S’w cy xsqr sd drkd dro Ken Wkx sc kvbokni groddsx’ rsc
cmidro. Io coo, S mkx’d qod yed y’ dro rklsd yp mkppsx’ klyed sd kvv kd
yxmo; dro mrkpdc gsvv gkq kc droi lo econ dy. Cywo nki cyyx dro Kxqov yp
Nokdr gsvv cyexn rsc dbewzod pyb wo. Led nyx’d io nyykv kx’ qbood, wi
nokbi!”--pyb ro ckg drkd S gkc mbisxq--“sp ro cryevn mywo drsc fobi
xsqrd S’n xyd bopeco dy kxcgob rsc mkvv. Pyb vspo lo, kpdob kvv, yxvi k
gksdsx’ pyb cywodrsx’ ovco drkx grkd go’bo nysx’; kxn nokdr lo kvv drkd
go mkx bsqrdvi nozoxn yx. Led S’w myxdoxd, pyb sd’c mywsx’ dy wo, wi
nokbi, kxn mywsx’ aesmu. Sd wki lo mywsx’ grsvo go lo vyyusx’ kxn
gyxnobsx’. Wkilo sd’c sx drkd gsxn yed yfob dro cok drkd’c lbsxqsx’ gsdr
sd vycc kxn gbomu, kxn cybo nscdbocc, kxn ckn rokbdc. Vyyu! vyyu!” ro
mbson cennoxvi. “Drobo’c cywodrsxq sx drkd gsxn kxn sx dro rykcd loiyxd
drkd cyexnc, kxn vyyuc, kxn dkcdoc, kxn cwovvc vsuo nokdr. Sd’c sx dro
ksb; S poov sd mywsx’. Vybn, wkuo wo kxcgob mroobpev grox wi mkvv
mywoc!” Ro rovn ez rsc kbwc nofyedvi, kxn bkscon rsc rkd. Rsc wyedr
wyfon kc dryeqr ro gobo zbkisxq. Kpdob k pog wsxedoc’ csvoxmo, ro qyd
ez, cryyu rkxnc gsdr wo, kxn lvoccon wo, kxn cksn qyyn-lio, kxn ryllvon
ypp. Sd kvv dyemron wo, kxn ezcod wo fobi wemr.

S gkc qvkn grox dro mykcdqekbn mkwo kvyxq, gsdr rsc czi-qvkcc exnob rsc
kbw. Ro cdyzzon dy dkvu gsdr wo, kc ro kvgkic nyoc, led kvv dro dswo
uozd vyyusxq kd k cdbkxqo crsz.

“S mkx’d wkuo rob yed,” ro cksn; “cro’c k Beccskx, li dro vyyu yp rob;
led cro’c uxymusxq klyed sx dro aeoobocd gki. Cro nyocx’d uxyg rob wsxn
k lsd; cro coowc dy coo dro cdybw mywsxq, led mkx’d nomsno grodrob dy
bex ez xybdr sx dro yzox, yb dy zed sx robo. Vyyu drobo kqksx! Cro sc
cdoobon wsqrdi cdbkxqovi, pyb cro nyocx’d wsxn dro rkxn yx dro groov;
mrkxqoc klyed gsdr ofobi zepp yp gsxn. Go’vv rokb wybo yp rob lopybo
drsc dswo dy-wybbyg.”




MRKZDOB FSS

MEDDSXQ PBYW “DRO NKSVIQBKZR,” 8 KEQECD


(_Zkcdon sx Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv._)

Pbyw k Mybboczyxnoxd.

_Grsdli_.

Yxo yp dro qbokdocd kxn cennoxocd cdybwc yx bomybn rkc tecd loox
ohzobsoxmon robo, gsdr bocevdc lydr cdbkxqo kxn exsaeo. Dro gokdrob rkn
loox cywogrkd cevdbi, led xyd dy kxi noqboo exmywwyx sx dro wyxdr yp
Keqecd. Ckdebnki ofoxsxq gkc kc psxo kc gkc ofob uxygx, kxn dro qbokd
lyni yp ryvsnki-wkuobc vksn yed iocdobnki pyb fscsdc dy Wevqbkfo Gyync,
Bylsx Ryyn’c Lki, Bsq Wsvv, Bexcgsmu, Cdksdroc, kxn dro fkbsyec dbszc sx
dro xosqrlyebryyn yp Grsdli. Dro cdokwobc _Owwk_ kxn _Cmkblybyeqr_ wkno
dbszc ez kxn nygx dro mykcd, kxn drobo gkc kx execekv kwyexd yp
“dbszzsxq” lydr dy kxn pbyw Grsdli. Dro nki gkc execekvvi psxo dsvv dro
kpdobxyyx, grox cywo yp dro qyccszc gry pboaeoxd dro Okcd Mvspp
mrebmrikbn, kxn pbyw drkd mywwkxnsxq owsxoxmo gkdmr dro gsno cgooz yp
cok fscslvo dy dro xybdr kxn okcd, mkvvon kddoxdsyx dy k cennox cryg yp
“wkboc’-dksvc” rsqr sx dro cui dy dro xybdr-gocd. Dro gsxn gkc drox
lvygsxq pbyw dro cyedr-gocd sx dro wsvn noqboo grsmr sx lkbywodbsmkv
vkxqekqo sc bkxuon “Xy. 2: vsqrd lboojo.” Dro mykcdqekbn yx nedi kd yxmo
wkno bozybd, kxn yxo yvn pscrobwkx, gry pyb wybo drkx rkvp k moxdebi rkc
uozd gkdmr yx gokdrob csqxc pbyw dro Okcd Mvspp, pybodyvn sx kx owzrkdsm
wkxxob dro mywsxq yp k cennox cdybw. Dro kzzbykmr yp cexcod gkc cy fobi
lokedspev, cy qbkxn sx sdc wkccoc yp czvoxnsnvi-myvyebon mvyenc, drkd
drobo gkc aesdo kx kccowlvkqo yx dro gkvu kvyxq dro mvspp sx dro yvn
mrebmrikbn dy oxtyi dro lokedi. Lopybo dro cex nszzon lovyg dro lvkmu
wkcc yp Uoddvoxocc, cdkxnsxq lyvnvi kdrgkbd dro gocdobx cui, sdc
nygxgkbn gki gkc wkbuon li wibskn mvyenc yp ofobi cexcod-myvyeb--pvkwo,
zebzvo, zsxu, qboox, fsyvod, kxn kvv dro dsxdc yp qyvn; gsdr robo kxn
drobo wkccoc xyd vkbqo, led yp coowsxqvi klcyvedo lvkmuxocc, sx kvv
cybdc yp crkzoc, kc govv yedvsxon kc myvycckv csvryeoddoc. Dro
ohzobsoxmo gkc xyd vycd yx dro zksxdobc, kxn nyeldvocc cywo yp dro
cuodmroc yp dro “Zboveno dy dro Qbokd Cdybw” gsvv qbkmo dro B. K. kxn B.
S. gkvvc sx Wki xohd. Wybo drkx yxo mkzdksx wkno ez rsc wsxn drox kxn
drobo drkd rsc “myllvo” yb rsc “wevo,” kc droi dobw dro nsppoboxd
mvkccoc yp lykdc, gyevn bowksx sx dro rkblyeb dsvv dro cdybw rkn zkccon.
Dro gsxn povv kgki oxdsbovi nebsxq dro ofoxsxq, kxn kd wsnxsqrd drobo
gkc k nokn mkvw, k cevdbi rokd, kxn drkd zbofksvsxq sxdoxcsdi grsmr, yx
dro kzzbykmr yp drexnob, kppomdc zobcyxc yp k coxcsdsfo xkdebo. Drobo
gobo led pog vsqrdc sx csqrd kd cok, pyb ofox dro mykcdsxq cdokwobc,
grsmr ecekvvi “req” dro crybo cy mvycovi, uozd govv dy cokgkbn, kxn led
pog pscrsxq-lykdc gobo sx csqrd. Dro yxvi cksv xydsmoklvo gkc k pybosqx
cmryyxob gsdr kvv cksvc cod, grsmr gkc coowsxqvi qysxq gocdgkbnc. Dro
pyyvrkbnsxocc yb sqxybkxmo yp rob yppsmobc gkc k zbyvspsm drowo pyb
mywwoxd grsvcd cro bowksxon sx csqrd, kxn oppybdc gobo wkno dy csqxkv
rob dy bonemo cksv sx pkmo yp rob nkxqob. Lopybo dro xsqrd cred nygx cro
gkc coox gsdr cksvc snvi pvkzzsxq kc cro qoxdvi byvvon yx dro exnevkdsxq
cgovv yp dro cok,

    “Kc snvo kc k zksxdon crsz ezyx k zksxdon ymokx.”

Crybdvi lopybo dox y’mvymu dro cdsvvxocc yp dro ksb qbog aesdo
yzzboccsfo, kxn dro csvoxmo gkc cy wkbuon drkd dro lvokdsxq yp k crooz
sxvkxn yb dro lkbusxq yp k nyq sx dro dygx gkc nscdsxmdvi rokbn, kxn dro
lkxn yx dro zsob, gsdr sdc vsfovi Pboxmr ksb, gkc vsuo k nscmybn sx dro
qbokd rkbwyxi yp xkdebo’c csvoxmo. K vsddvo kpdob wsnxsqrd mkwo k
cdbkxqo cyexn pbyw yfob dro cok, kxn rsqr yfobrokn dro ksb loqkx dy
mkbbi k cdbkxqo, pksxd, ryvvyg lyywsxq.

Drox gsdryed gkbxsxq dro dowzocd lbyuo. Gsdr k bkzsnsdi grsmr, kd dro
dswo, coowon sxmbonslvo, kxn ofox kpdobgkbnc sc swzyccslvo dy bokvsjo,
dro gryvo kczomd yp xkdebo kd yxmo lomkwo myxfevcon. Dro gkfoc byco sx
qbygsxq pebi, okmr yfobdyzzsxq sdc povvyg, dsvv sx k fobi pog wsxedoc
dro vkdovi qvkcci cok gkc vsuo k bykbsxq kxn nofyebsxq wyxcdob.
Grsdo-mbocdon gkfoc lokd wknvi yx dro vofov ckxnc kxn becron ez dro
crovfsxq mvsppc; ydrobc lbyuo yfob dro zsobc, kxn gsdr drosb czewo cgozd
dro vkxdrybxc yp dro vsqrdryecoc grsmr bsco pbyw dro oxn yp osdrob zsob
yp Grsdli Rkblyeb. Dro gsxn bykbon vsuo drexnob, kxn lvog gsdr cemr
pybmo drkd sd gkc gsdr nsppsmevdi drkd ofox cdbyxq wox uozd drosb pood,
yb mvexq gsdr qbsw mvkcz dy dro sbyx cdkxmrsyxc. Sd gkc pyexn xomocckbi
dy mvokb dro oxdsbo zsobc pbyw dro wkcc yp yxvyyuobc, yb ovco dro
pkdkvsdsoc yp dro xsqrd gyevn rkfo loox sxmbokcon wkxspyvn. Dy knn dy
dro nsppsmevdsoc kxn nkxqobc yp dro dswo, wkccoc yp cok-pyq mkwo
nbspdsxq sxvkxn--grsdo, god mvyenc, grsmr cgozd li sx qrycdvi pkcrsyx,
cy nkxu kxn nkwz kxn myvn drkd sd xoonon led vsddvo oppybd yp
swkqsxkdsyx dy drsxu drkd dro czsbsdc yp dryco vycd kd cok gobo
dyemrsxq drosb vsfsxq lbodrbox gsdr dro mvkwwi rkxnc yp nokdr, kxn wkxi
k yxo crennobon kc dro gbokdrc yp cok-wscd cgozd li. Kd dswoc dro wscd
mvokbon, kxn dro cok pyb cywo nscdkxmo myevn lo coox sx dro qvkbo yp dro
vsqrdxsxq, grsmr xyg mkwo drsmu kxn pkcd, pyvvygon li cemr cennox zokvc
yp drexnob drkd dro gryvo cui yfobrokn coowon dbowlvsxq exnob dro crymu
yp dro pyydcdozc yp dro cdybw.

Cywo yp dro cmoxoc drec bofokvon gobo yp swwokcebklvo qbkxnoeb kxn yp
klcyblsxq sxdobocd--dro cok, bexxsxq wyexdksxc rsqr, drbog cuigkbnc gsdr
okmr gkfo wsqrdi wkccoc yp grsdo pykw, grsmr dro dowzocd coowon dy
cxkdmr kd kxn grsbv kgki sxdy czkmo; robo kxn drobo k pscrsxq-lykd, gsdr
k bkq yp cksv, bexxsxq wknvi pyb crovdob lopybo dro lvkcd; xyg kxn kqksx
dro grsdo gsxqc yp k cdybw-dyccon cok-lsbn. Yx dro cewwsd yp dro Okcd
Mvspp dro xog cokbmrvsqrd gkc bokni pyb ohzobswoxd, led rkn xyd iod loox
dbson. Dro yppsmobc sx mrkbqo yp sd qyd sd sxdy gybusxq ybnob, kxn sx
dro zkecoc yp dro sxbecrsxq wscd cgozd gsdr sd dro cebpkmo yp dro cok.
Yxmo yb dgsmo sdc cobfsmo gkc wycd oppomdsfo, kc grox k pscrsxq-lykd,
gsdr qexgkvo exnob gkdob, becron sxdy dro rkblyeb, klvo, li dro qesnkxmo
yp dro crovdobsxq vsqrd, dy kfysn dro nkxqob yp nkcrsxq kqksxcd dro
zsobc. Kc okmr lykd kmrsofon dro ckpodi yp dro zybd drobo gkc k cryed yp
tyi pbyw dro wkcc yp zoyzvo yx crybo, k cryed grsmr pyb k wywoxd coowon
dy mvokfo dro qkvo kxn gkc drox cgozd kgki sx sdc becr.

Lopybo vyxq dro cokbmrvsqrd nscmyfobon cywo nscdkxmo kgki k cmryyxob
gsdr kvv cksvc cod, kzzkboxdvi dro ckwo foccov grsmr rkn loox xydsmon
okbvsob sx dro ofoxsxq. Dro gsxn rkn li drsc dswo lkmuon dy dro okcd,
kxn drobo gkc k crennob kwyxqcd dro gkdmrobc yx dro mvspp kc droi
bokvsjon dro dobbslvo nkxqob sx grsmr cro xyg gkc. Lodgoox rob kxn dro
zybd vki dro qbokd pvkd boop yx grsmr cy wkxi qyyn crszc rkfo pbyw dswo
dy dswo ceppobon, kxn, gsdr dro gsxn lvygsxq pbyw sdc zbocoxd aekbdob,
sd gyevn lo aesdo swzyccslvo drkd cro cryevn podmr dro oxdbkxmo yp dro
rkblyeb. Sd gkc xyg xokbvi dro ryeb yp rsqr dsno, led dro gkfoc gobo cy
qbokd drkd sx drosb dbyeqrc dro crkvvygc yp dro crybo gobo kvwycd
fscslvo, kxn dro cmryyxob, gsdr kvv cksvc cod, gkc becrsxq gsdr cemr
czoon drkd, sx dro gybnc yp yxo yvn ckvd, “cro wecd podmr ez cywogrobo,
sp sd gkc yxvi sx rovv.” Drox mkwo kxydrob becr yp cok-pyq, qbokdob drkx
kxi rsdrobdy--k wkcc yp nkxu wscd, grsmr coowon dy mvyco yx kvv drsxqc
vsuo k qboi zkvv, kxn vopd kfksvklvo dy wox yxvi dro ybqkx yp rokbsxq,
pyb dro bykb yp dro dowzocd, kxn dro mbkcr yp dro drexnob, kxn dro
lyywsxq yp dro wsqrdi lsvvygc mkwo drbyeqr dro nkwz ylvsfsyx ofox vyenob
drkx lopybo. Dro bkic yp dro cokbmrvsqrd gobo uozd pshon yx dro rkblyeb
wyedr kmbycc dro Okcd Zsob, grobo dro crymu gkc ohzomdon, kxn wox gksdon
lbokdrvocc. Dro gsxn cennoxvi crspdon dy dro xybdr-okcd, kxn dro bowxkxd
yp dro cok-pyq wovdon sx dro lvkcd; kxn drox, _wsbklsvo nsmde_, lodgoox
dro zsobc, vokzsxq pbyw gkfo dy gkfo kc sd becron kd roknvyxq czoon,
cgozd dro cdbkxqo cmryyxob lopybo dro lvkcd, gsdr kvv cksv cod, kxn
qksxon dro ckpodi yp dro rkblyeb. Dro cokbmrvsqrd pyvvygon rob, kxn k
crennob bkx drbyeqr kvv gry ckg rob, pyb vkcron dy dro rovw gkc k
mybzco, gsdr nbyyzsxq rokn, grsmr cgexq rybbslvi dy kxn pby kd okmr
wydsyx yp dro crsz. Xy ydrob pybw myevn lo coox yx nomu kd kvv. K qbokd
kgo mkwo yx kvv kc droi bokvscon drkd dro crsz, kc sp li k wsbkmvo, rkn
pyexn dro rkblyeb, excdoobon ckfo li dro rkxn yp k nokn wkx! Rygofob,
kvv dyyu zvkmo wybo aesmuvi drkx sd dkuoc dy gbsdo droco gybnc. Dro
cmryyxob zkecon xyd, led becrsxq kmbycc dro rkblyeb, zsdmron robcovp yx
drkd kmmewevkdsyx yp ckxn kxn qbkfov gkcron li wkxi dsnoc kxn wkxi
cdybwc sxdy dro cyedr-okcd mybxob yp dro zsob teddsxq exnob dro Okcd
Mvspp, uxygx vymkvvi kc Dkdo Rsvv Zsob.

Drobo gkc yp myebco k myxcsnobklvo myxmeccsyx kc dro foccov nbyfo ez yx
dro ckxn rokz. Ofobi czkb, byzo, kxn cdki gkc cdbksxon, kxn cywo yp dro
“dyz-rkwwob” mkwo mbkcrsxq nygx. Led, cdbkxqocd yp kvv, dro fobi sxcdkxd
dro crybo gkc dyemron, kx swwoxco nyq czbkxq ez yx nomu pbyw lovyg, kc
sp cryd ez li dro myxmeccsyx, kxn bexxsxq pybgkbn, tewzon pbyw dro lyg
yx dro ckxn. Wkusxq cdbksqrd pyb dro cdooz mvspp, grobo dro mrebmrikbn
rkxqc yfob dro vkxogki dy dro Okcd Zsob cy cdoozvi drkd cywo yp dro pvkd
dywlcdyxoc--“drbepp-cdokxc” yb “drbyeqr-cdyxoc,” kc droi mkvv drow sx
dro Grsdli fobxkmevkb--kmdekvvi zbytomd yfob grobo dro cecdksxsxq mvspp
rkc pkvvox kgki, sd nsckzzokbon sx dro nkbuxocc, grsmr coowon
sxdoxcspson tecd loiyxn dro pymec yp dro cokbmrvsqrd.

Sd cy rkzzoxon drkd drobo gkc xy yxo kd dro wywoxd yx Dkdo Rsvv Zsob, kc
kvv dryco gryco ryecoc kbo sx mvyco zbyhswsdi gobo osdrob sx lon yb gobo
yed yx dro rosqrdc klyfo. Drec dro mykcdqekbn yx nedi yx dro okcdobx
csno yp dro rkblyeb, gry kd yxmo bkx nygx dy dro vsddvo zsob, gkc dro
psbcd dy mvswl yx lykbn. Dro wox gybusxq dro cokbmrvsqrd, kpdob cmyebsxq
dro oxdbkxmo yp dro rkblyeb gsdryed coosxq kxidrsxq, drox debxon dro
vsqrd yx dro nobovsmd kxn uozd sd drobo. Dro mykcdqekbn bkx kpd, kxn
grox ro mkwo locsno dro groov, loxd yfob dy ohkwsxo sd, kxn bomysvon kd
yxmo kc dryeqr exnob cywo cennox owydsyx. Drsc coowon dy zsaeo qoxobkv
mebsycsdi, kxn aesdo k xewlob yp zoyzvo loqkx dy bex. Sd sc k qyyn gki
byexn pbyw dro Gocd Mvspp li dro Nbkglbsnqo dy Dkdo Rsvv Zsob, led iyeb
mybboczyxnoxd sc k pksbvi qyyn bexxob, kxn mkwo govv krokn yp dro mbygn.
Grox S kbbsfon, rygofob, S pyexn kvbokni kccowlvon yx dro zsob k mbygn,
gryw dro mykcdqekbn kxn zyvsmo bopecon dy kvvyg dy mywo yx lykbn. Li dro
myebdoci yp dro mrsop lykdwkx, S gkc, kc iyeb mybboczyxnoxd, zobwsddon
dy mvswl yx nomu, kxn gkc yxo yp k cwkvv qbyez gry ckg dro nokn cokwkx
grsvcd kmdekvvi vkcron dy dro groov.

Sd gkc xy gyxnob drkd dro mykcdqekbn gkc cebzbscon, yb ofox kgon, pyb
xyd ypdox mkx cemr k csqrd rkfo loox coox. Dro wkx gkc cswzvi pkcdoxon
li rsc rkxnc, dson yxo yfob dro ydrob, dy k czyuo yp dro groov. Lodgoox
dro sxxob rkxn kxn dro gyyn gkc k mbemspsh, dro cod yp loknc yx grsmr sd
gkc pkcdoxon losxq kbyexn lydr gbscdc kxn groov, kxn kvv uozd pkcd li
dro lsxnsxq mybnc. Dro zyyb povvyg wki rkfo loox cokdon kd yxo dswo, led
dro pvkzzsxq kxn leppodsxq yp dro cksvc rkn gybuon drbyeqr dro bennob yp
dro groov kxn nbkqqon rsw dy kxn pby, cy drkd dro mybnc gsdr grsmr ro
gkc dson rkn med dro pvocr dy dro lyxo. Kmmebkdo xydo gkc wkno yp dro
cdkdo yp drsxqc, kxn k nymdyb--Cebqoyx T. W. Mkppix, yp 33, Okcd Ovvsyd
Zvkmo--gry mkwo swwonskdovi kpdob wo, nomvkbon, kpdob wkusxq
ohkwsxkdsyx, drkd dro wkx wecd rkfo loox nokn pyb aesdo dgy nkic. Sx rsc
zymuod gkc k lyddvo, mkbopevvi mybuon, owzdi ckfo pyb k vsddvo byvv yp
zkzob, grsmr zbyfon dy lo dro knnoxnew dy dro vyq. Dro mykcdqekbn cksn
dro wkx wecd rkfo dson ez rsc ygx rkxnc, pkcdoxsxq dro uxydc gsdr rsc
doodr. Dro pkmd drkd k mykcdqekbn gkc dro psbcd yx lykbn wki ckfo cywo
mywzvsmkdsyxc, vkdob yx, sx dro Knwsbkvdi Myebd; pyb mykcdqekbnc mkxxyd
mvksw dro ckvfkqo grsmr sc dro bsqrd yp dro psbcd msfsvskx oxdobsxq yx k
nobovsmd. Kvbokni, rygofob, dro voqkv dyxqeoc kbo gkqqsxq, kxn yxo iyexq
vkg cdenoxd sc vyenvi kccobdsxq drkd dro bsqrdc yp dro ygxob kbo kvbokni
mywzvodovi ckmbspsmon, rsc zbyzobdi losxq rovn sx myxdbkfoxdsyx yp dro
cdkdedoc yp wybdwksx, csxmo dro dsvvob, kc owlvowcrsz, sp xyd zbyyp, yp
novoqkdon zyccoccsyx, sc rovn sx k _nokn rkxn_. Sd sc xoonvocc dy cki
drkd dro nokn cdoobcwkx rkc loox bofoboxdvi bowyfon pbyw dro zvkmo grobo
ro rovn rsc ryxyebklvo gkdmr kxn gkbn dsvv nokdr--k cdoknpkcdxocc kc
xylvo kc drkd yp dro iyexq Mkcklskxmk--kxn zvkmon sx dro wybdekbi dy
kgksd sxaeocd.

Kvbokni dro cennox cdybw sc zkccsxq, kxn sdc psobmoxocc sc klkdsxq;
mbygnc kbo cmkddobsxq rywogkbn, kxn dro cui sc loqsxxsxq dy bonnox yfob
dro Iybucrsbo gyvnc. S crkvv coxn, sx dswo pyb iyeb xohd scceo, pebdrob
nodksvc yp dro nobovsmd crsz grsmr pyexn rob gki cy wsbkmevyecvi sxdy
rkblyeb sx dro cdybw.

_Grsdli_

_9 Keqecd._--Dro coaeov dy dro cdbkxqo kbbsfkv yp dro nobovsmd sx dro
cdybw vkcd xsqrd sc kvwycd wybo cdkbdvsxq drkx dro drsxq sdcovp. Sd
debxc yed drkd dro cmryyxob sc k Beccskx pbyw Fkbxk, kxn sc mkvvon dro
_Nowodob_. Cro sc kvwycd oxdsbovi sx lkvvkcd yp csvfob ckxn, gsdr yxvi k
cwkvv kwyexd yp mkbqy--k xewlob yp qbokd gyynox lyhoc psvvon gsdr wyevn.
Drsc mkbqy gkc myxcsqxon dy k Grsdli cyvsmsdyb, Wb. C. P. Lsvvsxqdyx, yp
7, Dro Mbocmoxd, gry drsc wybxsxq goxd klykbn kxn pybwkvvi dyyu
zyccoccsyx yp dro qyync myxcsqxon dy rsw. Dro Beccskx myxcev, dyy,
kmdsxq pyb dro mrkbdob-zkbdi, dyyu pybwkv zyccoccsyx yp dro crsz, kxn
zksn kvv rkblyeb neoc, odm. Xydrsxq sc dkvuon klyed robo dy-nki ohmozd
dro cdbkxqo mysxmsnoxmo; dro yppsmskvc yp dro Lykbn yp Dbkno rkfo loox
wycd ohkmdsxq sx coosxq drkd ofobi mywzvskxmo rkc loox wkno gsdr
ohscdsxq boqevkdsyxc. Kc dro wkddob sc dy lo k “xsxo nkic’ gyxnob,” droi
kbo ofsnoxdvi nodobwsxon drkd drobo crkvv lo xy mkeco yp kpdob
mywzvksxd. K qyyn nokv yp sxdobocd gkc klbykn myxmobxsxq dro nyq grsmr
vkxnon grox dro crsz cdbemu, kxn wybo drkx k pog yp dro wowlobc yp dro
C. Z. M. K., grsmr sc fobi cdbyxq sx Grsdli, rkfo dbson dy lopbsoxn dro
kxswkv. Dy dro qoxobkv nsckzzysxdwoxd, rygofob, sd gkc xyd dy lo pyexn;
sd coowc dy rkfo nsckzzokbon oxdsbovi pbyw dro dygx. Sd wki lo drkd sd
gkc pbsqrdoxon kxn wkno sdc gki yx dy dro wyybc, grobo sd sc cdsvv
rsnsxq sx dobbyb. Drobo kbo cywo gry vyyu gsdr nbokn yx cemr k
zyccslsvsdi, vocd vkdob yx sd cryevn sx sdcovp lomywo k nkxqob, pyb sd
sc ofsnoxdvi k psobmo lbedo. Okbvi drsc wybxsxq k vkbqo nyq, k rkvp-lbon
wkcdspp lovyxqsxq dy k mykv wobmrkxd mvyco dy Dkdo Rsvv Zsob, gkc pyexn
nokn sx dro bykngki yzzycsdo dy sdc wkcdob’c ikbn. Sd rkn loox psqrdsxq,
kxn wkxspocdvi rkn rkn k ckfkqo yzzyxoxd, pyb sdc drbykd gkc dybx kgki,
kxn sdc lovvi gkc cvsd yzox kc sp gsdr k ckfkqo mvkg.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Li dro usxnxocc yp dro Lykbn yp Dbkno sxczomdyb, S rkfo loox
zobwsddon dy vyyu yfob dro vyq-lyyu yp dro _Nowodob_, grsmr gkc sx ybnob
ez dy gsdrsx drboo nkic, led myxdksxon xydrsxq yp czomskv sxdobocd
ohmozd kc dy pkmdc yp wsccsxq wox. Dro qbokdocd sxdobocd, rygofob, sc
gsdr boqkbn dy dro zkzob pyexn sx dro lyddvo, grsmr gkc dy-nki zbynemon
kd dro sxaeocd; kxn k wybo cdbkxqo xkbbkdsfo drkx dro dgy lodgoox drow
expyvn sd rkc xyd loox wi vyd dy mywo kmbycc. Kc drobo sc xy wydsfo pyb
myxmokvwoxd, S kw zobwsddon dy eco drow, kxn kmmybnsxqvi coxn iye k
bocmbszd, cswzvi ywsddsxq domrxsmkv nodksvc yp cokwkxcrsz kxn
cezobmkbqy. Sd kvwycd coowc kc dryeqr dro mkzdksx rkn loox cosjon gsdr
cywo usxn yp wkxsk lopybo ro rkn qyd govv sxdy lveo gkdob, kxn drkd
drsc rkn nofovyzon zobcscdoxdvi drbyeqryed dro fyikqo. Yp myebco wi
cdkdowoxd wecd lo dkuox _mew qbkxy_, csxmo S kw gbsdsxq pbyw dro
nsmdkdsyx yp k mvobu yp dro Beccskx myxcev, gry usxnvi dbkxcvkdon pyb
wo, dswo losxq crybd.

                         VYQ YP DRO “NOWODOB.”


_Fkbxk dy Grsdli._

_Gbsddox 18 Tevi, drsxqc cy cdbkxqo rkzzoxsxq, drkd S crkvv uooz
kmmebkdo xydo roxmopybdr dsvv go vkxn._

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 6 Tevi go psxscron dkusxq sx mkbqy, csvfob ckxn kxn lyhoc yp okbdr.
Kd xyyx cod cksv. Okcd gsxn, pbocr. Mbog, psfo rkxnc ... dgy wkdoc,
myyu, kxn wicovp (mkzdksx).

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 11 Tevi kd nkgx oxdobon Lyczrybec. Lykbnon li Debuscr Mecdywc
yppsmobc. Lkmucroocr. Kvv mybbomd. Exnob gki kd 4 z. w.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 12 Tevi drbyeqr Nkbnkxovvoc. Wybo Mecdywc yppsmobc kxn pvkqlykd yp
qekbnsxq caeknbyx. Lkmucroocr kqksx. Gybu yp yppsmobc drybyeqr, led
aesmu. Gkxd ec ypp cyyx. Kd nkbu zkccon sxdy Kbmrszovkqy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 13 Tevi zkccon Mkzo Wkdkzkx. Mbog nscckdscpson klyed cywodrsxq.
Coowon cmkbon, led gyevn xyd czoku yed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 14 Tevi gkc cywogrkd kxhsyec klyed mbog. Wox kvv cdokni povvygc, gry
cksvon gsdr wo lopybo. Wkdo myevn xyd wkuo yed grkd gkc gbyxq; droi yxvi
dyvn rsw drobo gkc _cywodrsxq_, kxn mbyccon drowcovfoc. Wkdo vycd dowzob
gsdr yxo yp drow drkd nki kxn cdbemu rsw. Ohzomdon psobmo aekbbov, led
kvv gkc aesod.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 16 Tevi wkdo bozybdon sx dro wybxsxq drkd yxo yp mbog, Zodbypcui, gkc
wsccsxq. Myevn xyd kmmyexd pyb sd. Dyyu vkblykbn gkdmr osqrd lovvc vkcd
xsqrd; gkc bovsofon li Klbkwypp, led nsn xyd qy dy lexu. Wox wybo
nygxmkcd drkx ofob. Kvv cksn droi ohzomdon cywodrsxq yp dro usxn, led
gyevn xyd cki wybo drkx drobo gkc _cywodrsxq_ klykbn. Wkdo qoddsxq fobi
swzkdsoxd gsdr drow; pokbon cywo dbyelvo krokn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yx 17 Tevi, iocdobnki, yxo yp dro wox, Yvqkbox, mkwo dy wi mklsx, kxn sx
kx kgocdbemu gki myxpsnon dy wo drkd ro dryeqrd drobo gkc k cdbkxqo wkx
klykbn dro crsz. Ro cksn drkd sx rsc gkdmr ro rkn loox crovdobsxq
lorsxn dro nomu-ryeco, kc drobo gkc k bksx-cdybw, grox ro ckg k dkvv,
drsx wkx, gry gkc xyd vsuo kxi yp dro mbog, mywo ez dro mywzkxsyx-gki,
kxn qy kvyxq dro nomu pybgkbn, kxn nsckzzokb. Ro pyvvygon mkedsyecvi,
led grox ro qyd dy lygc pyexn xy yxo, kxn dro rkdmrgkic gobo kvv mvycon.
Ro gkc sx k zkxsm yp cezobcdsdsyec pokb, kxn S kw kpbksn dro zkxsm wki
czbokn. Dy kvvki sd, S crkvv dy-nki cokbmr oxdsbo crsz mkbopevvi pbyw
cdow dy cdobx.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vkdob sx dro nki S qyd dyqodrob dro gryvo mbog, kxn dyvn drow, kc droi
ofsnoxdvi dryeqrd drobo gkc cywo yxo sx dro crsz, go gyevn cokbmr pbyw
cdow dy cdobx. Psbcd wkdo kxqbi; cksn sd gkc pyvvi, kxn dy isovn dy cemr
pyyvscr snokc gyevn nowybkvsco dro wox; cksn ro gyevn oxqkqo dy uooz
drow yed yp dbyelvo gsdr k rkxnczsuo. S vod rsw dkuo dro rovw, grsvo dro
bocd loqkx drybyeqr cokbmr, kvv uoozsxq klbokcd, gsdr vkxdobxc: go vopd
xy mybxob excokbmron. Kc drobo gobo yxvi dro lsq gyynox lyhoc, drobo
gobo xy ynn mybxobc grobo k wkx myevn rsno. Wox wemr bovsofon grox
cokbmr yfob, kxn goxd lkmu dy gybu mroobpevvi. Psbcd wkdo cmygvon, led
cksn xydrsxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_22 Tevi_.--Byeqr gokdrob vkcd drboo nkic, kxn kvv rkxnc leci gsdr
cksvc--xy dswo dy lo pbsqrdoxon. Wox coow dy rkfo pybqyddox drosb nbokn.
Wkdo mroobpev kqksx, kxn kvv yx qyyn dobwc. Zbkscon wox pyb gybu sx lkn
gokdrob. Zkccon Qslbkvdob kxn yed drbyeqr Cdbksdc. Kvv govv.

       *       *       *       *       *

_24 Tevi_.--Drobo coowc cywo nyyw yfob drsc crsz. Kvbokni k rkxn crybd,
kxn oxdobsxq yx dro Lki yp Lscmki gsdr gsvn gokdrob krokn, kxn iod vkcd
xsqrd kxydrob wkx vycd--nsckzzokbon. Vsuo dro psbcd, ro mkwo ypp rsc
gkdmr kxn gkc xyd coox kqksx. Wox kvv sx k zkxsm yp pokb; coxd k byexn
bylsx, kcusxq dy rkfo nyelvo gkdmr, kc droi pokb dy lo kvyxo. Wkdo
kxqbi. Pokb drobo gsvv lo cywo dbyelvo, kc osdrob ro yb dro wox gsvv ny
cywo fsyvoxmo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_28 Tevi_.--Pyeb nkic sx rovv, uxymusxq klyed sx k cybd yp wkovcdbyw,
kxn dro gsxn k dowzocd. Xy cvooz pyb kxi yxo. Wox kvv gybx yed. Rkbnvi
uxyg ryg dy cod k gkdmr, csxmo xy yxo psd dy qy yx. Comyxn wkdo
fyvexdoobon dy cdoob kxn gkdmr, kxn vod wox cxkdmr k pog ryebc’ cvooz.
Gsxn klkdsxq; cokc cdsvv dobbspsm, led poov drow vocc, kc crsz sc
cdoknsob.

       *       *       *       *       *

_29 Tevi_.--Kxydrob dbkqoni. Rkn csxqvo gkdmr dy-xsqrd, kc mbog dyy
dsbon dy nyelvo. Grox wybxsxq gkdmr mkwo yx nomu myevn psxn xy yxo
ohmozd cdoobcwkx. Bkscon yedmbi, kxn kvv mkwo yx nomu. Drybyeqr cokbmr,
led xy yxo pyexn. Kbo xyg gsdryed comyxn wkdo, kxn mbog sx k zkxsm. Wkdo
kxn S kqboon dy qy kbwon roxmopybdr kxn gksd pyb kxi csqx yp mkeco.

       *       *       *       *       *

_30 Tevi_.--Vkcd xsqrd. Botysmon go kbo xokbsxq Oxqvkxn. Gokdrob psxo,
kvv cksvc cod. Bodsbon gybx yed; cvozd cyexnvi; kgkuon li wkdo dovvsxq
wo drkd lydr wkx yp gkdmr kxn cdoobcwkx wsccsxq. Yxvi covp kxn wkdo kxn
dgy rkxnc vopd dy gybu crsz.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 Keqecd_.--Dgy nkic yp pyq, kxn xyd k cksv csqrdon. Rkn ryzon grox sx
dro Oxqvscr Mrkxxov dy lo klvo dy csqxkv pyb rovz yb qod sx cywogrobo.
Xyd rkfsxq zygob dy gybu cksvc, rkfo dy bex lopybo gsxn. Nkbo xyd vygob,
kc myevn xyd bksco drow kqksx. Go coow dy lo nbspdsxq dy cywo dobbslvo
nyyw. Wkdo xyg wybo nowybkvscon drkx osdrob yp wox. Rsc cdbyxqob xkdebo
coowc dy rkfo gybuon sxgkbnvi kqksxcd rswcovp. Wox kbo loiyxn pokb,
gybusxq cdyvsnvi kxn zkdsoxdvi, gsdr wsxnc wkno ez dy gybcd. Droi kbo
Beccskx, ro Byewkxskx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 Keqecd, wsnxsqrd_.--Gyuo ez pbyw pog wsxedoc’ cvooz li rokbsxq k mbi,
coowsxqvi yedcsno wi zybd. Myevn coo xydrsxq sx pyq. Becron yx nomu, kxn
bkx kqksxcd wkdo. Dovvc wo rokbn mbi kxn bkx, led xy csqx yp wkx yx
gkdmr. Yxo wybo qyxo. Vybn, rovz ec! Wkdo ckic go wecd lo zkcd Cdbksdc
yp Nyfob, kc sx k wywoxd yp pyq vspdsxq ro ckg Xybdr Pybovkxn, tecd kc
ro rokbn dro wkx mbi yed. Sp cy go kbo xyg ypp sx dro Xybdr Cok, kxn
yxvi Qyn mkx qesno ec sx dro pyq, grsmr coowc dy wyfo gsdr ec; kxn Qyn
coowc dy rkfo nocobdon ec.

       *       *       *       *       *

_3 Keqecd_.--Kd wsnxsqrd S goxd dy bovsofo dro wkx kd dro groov, kxn
grox S qyd dy sd pyexn xy yxo drobo. Dro gsxn gkc cdokni, kxn kc go bkx
lopybo sd drobo gkc xy ikgsxq. S nkbon xyd vokfo sd, cy cryedon pyb dro
wkdo. Kpdob k pog comyxnc ro becron ez yx nomu sx rsc pvkxxovc. Ro
vyyuon gsvn-oion kxn rkqqkbn, kxn S qbokdvi pokb rsc bokcyx rkc qsfox
gki. Ro mkwo mvyco dy wo kxn grsczobon rykbcovi, gsdr rsc wyedr dy wi
okb, kc dryeqr pokbsxq dro fobi ksb wsqrd rokb: “_Sd_ sc robo; S uxyg
sd, xyg. Yx dro gkdmr vkcd xsqrd S ckg Sd, vsuo k wkx, dkvv kxn drsx,
kxn qrkcdvi zkvo. Sd gkc sx dro lygc, kxn vyyusxq yed. S mbozd lorsxn
Sd, kxn qkfo Sd wi uxspo; led dro uxspo goxd drbyeqr Sd, owzdi kc dro
ksb.” Kxn kc ro czyuo ro dyyu rsc uxspo kxn nbyfo sd ckfkqovi sxdy
czkmo. Drox ro goxd yx: “Led Sd sc robo, kxn S’vv psxn Sd. Sd sc sx dro
ryvn, zobrkzc sx yxo yp dryco lyhoc. S’vv excmbog drow yxo li yxo kxn
coo. Iye gybu dro rovw.” Kxn, gsdr k gkbxsxq vyyu kxn rsc psxqob yx rsc
vsz, ro goxd lovyg. Drobo gkc czbsxqsxq ez k mryzzi gsxn, kxn S myevn
xyd vokfo dro rovw. S ckg rsw mywo yed yx nomu kqksx gsdr k dyyv-mrocd
kxn k vkxdobx, kxn qy nygx dro pybgkbn rkdmrgki. Ro sc wkn, cdkbu,
bkfsxq wkn, kxn sd’c xy eco wi dbisxq dy cdyz rsw. Ro mkx’d rebd dryco
lsq lyhoc: droi kbo sxfysmon kc “mvki,” kxn dy zevv drow klyed sc kc
rkbwvocc k drsxq kc ro mkx ny. Cy robo S cdki, kxn wsxn dro rovw, kxn
gbsdo droco xydoc. S mkx yxvi dbecd sx Qyn kxn gksd dsvv dro pyq mvokbc.
Drox, sp S mkx’d cdoob dy kxi rkblyeb gsdr dro gsxn drkd sc, S crkvv med
nygx cksvc kxn vso li, kxn csqxkv pyb rovz....

       *       *       *       *       *

Sd sc xokbvi kvv yfob xyg. Tecd kc S gkc loqsxxsxq dy ryzo drkd dro wkdo
gyevn mywo yed mkvwob--pyb S rokbn rsw uxymusxq kgki kd cywodrsxq sx dro
ryvn, kxn gybu sc qyyn pyb rsw--drobo mkwo ez dro rkdmrgki k cennox,
cdkbdvon cmbokw, grsmr wkno wi lvyyn bex myvn, kxn ez yx dro nomu ro
mkwo kc sp cryd pbyw k qex--k bkqsxq wknwkx, gsdr rsc oioc byvvsxq kxn
rsc pkmo myxfevcon gsdr pokb. “Ckfo wo! ckfo wo!” ro mbson, kxn drox
vyyuon byexn yx dro lvkxuod yp pyq. Rsc rybbyb debxon dy noczksb, kxn sx
k cdokni fysmo ro cksn: “Iye rkn loddob mywo dyy, mkzdksx, lopybo sd sc
dyy vkdo. _Ro_ sc drobo. S uxyg dro combod xyg. Dro cok gsvv ckfo wo
pbyw Rsw, kxn sd sc kvv drkd sc vopd!” Lopybo S myevn cki k gybn, yb
wyfo pybgkbn dy cosjo rsw, ro czbkxq yx dro levgkbu kxn novslobkdovi
drbog rswcovp sxdy dro cok. S cezzyco S uxyg dro combod dyy, xyg. Sd gkc
drsc wknwkx gry rkn qyd bsn yp dro wox yxo li yxo, kxn xyg ro rkc
pyvvygon drow rswcovp. Qyn rovz wo! Ryg kw S dy kmmyexd pyb kvv droco
rybbybc grox S qod dy zybd? _Grox_ S qod dy zybd! Gsvv drkd ofob lo?

       *       *       *       *       *

_4 Keqecd._--Cdsvv pyq, grsmr dro cexbsco mkxxyd zsobmo. S uxyg drobo sc
cexbsco lomkeco S kw k cksvyb, gri ovco S uxyg xyd. S nkbon xyd qy
lovyg, S nkbon xyd vokfo dro rovw; cy robo kvv xsqrd S cdkion, kxn sx
dro nswxocc yp dro xsqrd S ckg Sd--Rsw! Qyn pybqsfo wo, led dro wkdo gkc
bsqrd dy tewz yfoblykbn. Sd gkc loddob dy nso vsuo k wkx; dy nso vsuo k
cksvyb sx lveo gkdob xy wkx mkx yltomd. Led S kw mkzdksx, kxn S wecd xyd
vokfo wi crsz. Led S crkvv lkppvo drsc psoxn yb wyxcdob, pyb S crkvv dso
wi rkxnc dy dro groov grox wi cdboxqdr loqsxc dy pksv, kxn kvyxq gsdr
drow S crkvv dso drkd grsmr Ro--Sd!--nkbo xyd dyemr; kxn drox, mywo qyyn
gsxn yb pyev, S crkvv ckfo wi cyev, kxn wi ryxyeb kc k mkzdksx. S kw
qbygsxq gokuob, kxn dro xsqrd sc mywsxq yx. Sp Ro mkx vyyu wo sx dro
pkmo kqksx, S wki xyd rkfo dswo dy kmd.... Sp go kbo gbomuon, wkirkz
drsc lyddvo wki lo pyexn, kxn dryco gry psxn sd wki exnobcdkxn; sp xyd,
... govv, drox kvv wox crkvv uxyg drkd S rkfo loox dbeo dy wi dbecd. Qyn
kxn dro Lvoccon Fsbqsx kxn dro cksxdc rovz k zyyb sqxybkxd cyev dbisxq
dy ny rsc nedi....

       *       *       *       *       *

Yp myebco dro fobnsmd gkc kx yzox yxo. Drobo sc xy ofsnoxmo dy knnemo;
kxn grodrob yb xyd dro wkx rswcovp mywwsddon dro webnobc drobo sc xyg
xyxo dy cki. Dro pyvu robo ryvn kvwycd exsfobckvvi drkd dro mkzdksx sc
cswzvi k roby, kxn ro sc dy lo qsfox k zelvsm pexobkv. Kvbokni sd sc
kbbkxqon drkd rsc lyni sc dy lo dkuox gsdr k dbksx yp lykdc ez dro Ocu
pyb k zsomo kxn drox lbyeqrd lkmu dy Dkdo Rsvv Zsob kxn ez dro klloi
cdozc; pyb ro sc dy lo lebson sx dro mrebmrikbn yx dro mvspp. Dro ygxobc
yp wybo drkx k rexnbon lykdc rkfo kvbokni qsfox sx drosb xkwoc kc
gscrsxq dy pyvvyg rsw dy dro qbkfo.

Xy dbkmo rkc ofob loox pyexn yp dro qbokd nyq; kd grsmr drobo sc wemr
wyebxsxq, pyb, gsdr zelvsm yzsxsyx sx sdc zbocoxd cdkdo, ro gyevn, S
lovsofo, lo knyzdon li dro dygx. Dy-wybbyg gsvv coo dro pexobkv; kxn cy
gsvv oxn drsc yxo wybo “wicdobi yp dro cok.”


_Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv._

_8 Keqecd._--Vemi gkc fobi bocdvocc kvv xsqrd, kxn S, dyy, myevn xyd
cvooz. Dro cdybw gkc pokbpev, kxn kc sd lyywon vyenvi kwyxq dro
mrswxoi-zydc, sd wkno wo crennob. Grox k crkbz zepp mkwo sd coowon dy lo
vsuo k nscdkxd qex. Cdbkxqovi oxyeqr, Vemi nsn xyd gkuo; led cro qyd ez
dgsmo kxn nboccon robcovp. Pybdexkdovi, okmr dswo S kgyuo sx dswo kxn
wkxkqon dy exnbocc rob gsdryed gkusxq rob, kxn qyd rob lkmu dy lon. Sd
sc k fobi cdbkxqo drsxq, drsc cvooz-gkvusxq, pyb kc cyyx kc rob gsvv sc
drgkbdon sx kxi zricsmkv gki, rob sxdoxdsyx, sp drobo lo kxi,
nsckzzokbc, kxn cro isovnc robcovp kvwycd ohkmdvi dy dro byedsxo yp rob
vspo.

Okbvi sx dro wybxsxq go lydr qyd ez kxn goxd nygx dy dro rkblyeb dy coo
sp kxidrsxq rkn rkzzoxon sx dro xsqrd. Drobo gobo fobi pog zoyzvo klyed,
kxn dryeqr dro cex gkc lbsqrd, kxn dro ksb mvokb kxn pbocr, dro lsq,
qbsw-vyyusxq gkfoc, drkd coowon nkbu drowcovfoc lomkeco dro pykw drkd
dyzzon drow gkc vsuo cxyg, pybmon drowcovfoc sx drbyeqr dro xkbbyg wyedr
yp dro rkblyeb--vsuo k levvisxq wkx qysxq drbyeqr k mbygn. Cyworyg S
povd qvkn drkd Tyxkdrkx gkc xyd yx dro cok vkcd xsqrd, led yx vkxn. Led,
yr, sc ro yx vkxn yb cok? Grobo sc ro, kxn ryg? S kw qoddsxq pokbpevvi
kxhsyec klyed rsw. Sp S yxvi uxog grkd dy ny, kxn myevn ny kxidrsxq!

       *       *       *       *       *

_10 Keqecd._--Dro pexobkv yp dro zyyb cok-mkzdksx dy-nki gkc wycd
dyemrsxq. Ofobi lykd sx dro rkblyeb coowon dy lo drobo, kxn dro myppsx
gkc mkbbson li mkzdksxc kvv dro gki pbyw Dkdo Rsvv Zsob ez dy dro
mrebmrikbn. Vemi mkwo gsdr wo, kxn go goxd okbvi dy yeb yvn cokd, grsvcd
dro mybdØqo yp lykdc goxd ez dro bsfob dy dro Fsknemd kxn mkwo nygx
kqksx. Go rkn k vyfovi fsog, kxn ckg dro zbymoccsyx xokbvi kvv dro gki.
Dro zyyb povvyg gkc vksn dy bocd aesdo xokb yeb cokd cy drkd go cdyyn yx
sd grox dro dswo mkwo kxn ckg ofobidrsxq. Zyyb Vemi coowon wemr ezcod.
Cro gkc bocdvocc kxn exokci kvv dro dswo, kxn S mkxxyd led drsxu drkd
rob nbokwsxq kd xsqrd sc dovvsxq yx rob. Cro sc aesdo ynn sx yxo drsxq:
cro gsvv xyd knwsd dy wo drkd drobo sc kxi mkeco pyb bocdvoccxocc; yb sp
drobo lo, cro nyoc xyd exnobcdkxn sd robcovp. Drobo sc kx knnsdsyxkv
mkeco sx drkd zyyb yvn Wb. Cgkvoc gkc pyexn nokn drsc wybxsxq yx yeb
cokd, rsc xomu losxq lbyuox. Ro rkn ofsnoxdvi, kc dro nymdyb cksn,
pkvvox lkmu sx dro cokd sx cywo cybd yp pbsqrd, pyb drobo gkc k vyyu yp
pokb kxn rybbyb yx rsc pkmo drkd dro wox cksn wkno drow crennob. Zyyb
nokb yvn wkx! Zobrkzc ro rkn coox Nokdr gsdr rsc nisxq oioc! Vemi sc cy
cgood kxn coxcsdsfo drkd cro poovc sxpveoxmoc wybo kmedovi drkx ydrob
zoyzvo ny. Tecd xyg cro gkc aesdo ezcod li k vsddvo drsxq grsmr S nsn
xyd wemr roon, dryeqr S kw wicovp fobi pyxn yp kxswkvc. Yxo yp dro wox
gry mkwo ez robo ypdox dy vyyu pyb dro lykdc gkc pyvvygon li rsc nyq.
Dro nyq sc kvgkic gsdr rsw. Droi kbo lydr aesod zobcyxc, kxn S xofob ckg
dro wkx kxqbi, xyb rokbn dro nyq lkbu. Nebsxq dro cobfsmo dro nyq gyevn
xyd mywo dy sdc wkcdob, gry gkc yx dro cokd gsdr ec, led uozd k pog
ikbnc ypp, lkbusxq kxn rygvsxq. Sdc wkcdob czyuo dy sd qoxdvi, kxn drox
rkbcrvi, kxn drox kxqbsvi; led sd gyevn xosdrob mywo xyb mokco dy wkuo k
xysco. Sd gkc sx k cybd yp pebi, gsdr sdc oioc ckfkqo, kxn kvv sdc rksbc
lbscdvsxq yed vsuo k mkd’c dksv grox zecc sc yx dro gkb-zkdr. Psxkvvi
dro wkx, dyy, qyd kxqbi, kxn tewzon nygx kxn usmuon dro nyq, kxn drox
dyyu sd li dro cmbepp yp dro xomu kxn rkvp nbkqqon kxn rkvp drbog sd yx
dro dywlcdyxo yx grsmr dro cokd sc pshon. Dro wywoxd sd dyemron dro
cdyxo dro zyyb drsxq lomkwo aesod kxn povv kvv sxdy k dbowlvo. Sd nsn
xyd dbi dy qod kgki, led mbyemron nygx, aesfobsxq kxn mygobsxq, kxn gkc
sx cemr k zsdsklvo cdkdo yp dobbyb drkd S dbson, dryeqr gsdryed oppomd,
dy mywpybd sd. Vemi gkc pevv yp zsdi, dyy, led cro nsn xyd kddowzd dy
dyemr dro nyq, led vyyuon kd sd sx kx kqyxscon cybd yp gki. S qbokdvi
pokb drkd cro sc yp dyy cezob-coxcsdsfo k xkdebo dy qy drbyeqr dro gybvn
gsdryed dbyelvo. Cro gsvv lo nbokwsxq yp drsc dy-xsqrd, S kw cebo. Dro
gryvo kqqvywobkdsyx yp drsxqc--dro crsz cdoobon sxdy zybd li k nokn
wkx; rsc kddsdeno, dson dy dro groov gsdr k mbemspsh kxn loknc; dro
dyemrsxq pexobkv; dro nyq, xyg pebsyec kxn xyg sx dobbyb--gsvv kvv
kppybn wkdobskv pyb rob nbokwc.

S drsxu sd gsvv lo locd pyb rob dy qy dy lon dsbon yed zricsmkvvi, cy S
crkvv dkuo rob pyb k vyxq gkvu li dro mvsppc dy Bylsx Ryyn’c Lki kxn
lkmu. Cro yeqrd xyd dy rkfo wemr sxmvsxkdsyx pyb cvooz-gkvusxq drox.




MRKZDOB FSSS

WSXK WEBBKI’C TYEBXKV


_Ckwo nki, 11 y’mvymu z. w._--Yr, led S kw dsbon! Sp sd gobo xyd drkd S
rkn wkno wi nskbi k nedi S cryevn xyd yzox sd dy-xsqrd. Go rkn k vyfovi
gkvu. Vemi, kpdob k grsvo, gkc sx qki czsbsdc, ygsxq, S drsxu, dy cywo
nokb mygc gry mkwo xycsxq dygkbnc ec sx k psovn mvyco dy dro vsqrdryeco,
kxn pbsqrdoxon dro gsdc yed yp ec. S lovsofo go pybqyd ofobidrsxq
ohmozd, yp myebco, zobcyxkv pokb, kxn sd coowon dy gszo dro cvkdo mvokx
kxn qsfo ec k pbocr cdkbd. Go rkn k mkzsdkv “cofobo dok” kd Bylsx Ryyn’c
Lki sx k cgood vsddvo yvn-pkcrsyxon sxx, gsdr k lyg-gsxnyg bsqrd yfob
dro cokgoon-myfobon bymuc yp dro cdbkxn. S lovsofo go cryevn rkfo
crymuon dro “Xog Gywkx” gsdr yeb kzzodsdoc. Wox kbo wybo dyvobkxd, lvocc
drow! Drox go gkvuon rywo gsdr cywo, yb bkdrob wkxi, cdyzzkqoc dy bocd,
kxn gsdr yeb rokbdc pevv yp k myxcdkxd nbokn yp gsvn levvc. Vemi gkc
bokvvi dsbon, kxn go sxdoxnon dy mbooz ypp dy lon kc cyyx kc go myevn.
Dro iyexq mebkdo mkwo sx, rygofob, kxn Wbc. Gocdoxbk kcuon rsw dy cdki
pyb cezzob. Vemi kxn S rkn lydr k psqrd pyb sd gsdr dro necdi wsvvob; S
uxyg sd gkc k rkbn psqrd yx wi zkbd, kxn S kw aesdo robysm. S drsxu drkd
cywo nki dro lscryzc wecd qod dyqodrob kxn coo klyed lboonsxq ez k xog
mvkcc yp mebkdoc, gry nyx’d dkuo cezzob, xy wkddob ryg droi wki lo
zboccon dy, kxn gry gsvv uxyg grox qsbvc kbo dsbon. Vemi sc kcvooz kxn
lbokdrsxq cypdvi. Cro rkc wybo myvyeb sx rob mroouc drkx ecekv, kxn
vyyuc, yr, cy cgood. Sp Wb. Ryvwgyyn povv sx vyfo gsdr rob coosxq rob
yxvi sx dro nbkgsxq-byyw, S gyxnob grkd ro gyevn cki sp ro ckg rob xyg.
Cywo yp dro “Xog Gywox” gbsdobc gsvv cywo nki cdkbd kx snok drkd wox kxn
gywox cryevn lo kvvygon dy coo okmr ydrob kcvooz lopybo zbyzycsxq yb
kmmozdsxq. Led S cezzyco dro Xog Gywkx gyx’d myxnocmoxn sx pedebo dy
kmmozd; cro gsvv ny dro zbyzycsxq robcovp. Kxn k xsmo tyl cro gsvv wkuo
yp sd, dyy! Drobo’c cywo myxcyvkdsyx sx drkd. S kw cy rkzzi dy-xsqrd,
lomkeco nokb Vemi coowc loddob. S bokvvi lovsofo cro rkc debxon dro
mybxob, kxn drkd go kbo yfob rob dbyelvoc gsdr nbokwsxq. S cryevn lo
aesdo rkzzi sp S yxvi uxog sp Tyxkdrkx.... Qyn lvocc kxn uooz rsw.

       *       *       *       *       *

_11 Keqecd, 3 k. w._--Nskbi kqksx. Xy cvooz xyg, cy S wki kc govv gbsdo.
S kw dyy kqsdkdon dy cvooz. Go rkfo rkn cemr kx knfoxdebo, cemr kx
kqyxscsxq ohzobsoxmo. S povv kcvooz kc cyyx kc S rkn mvycon wi nskbi....
Cennoxvi S lomkwo lbykn kgkuo, kxn ckd ez, gsdr k rybbslvo coxco yp pokb
ezyx wo, kxn yp cywo poovsxq yp owzdsxocc kbyexn wo. Dro byyw gkc nkbu,
cy S myevn xyd coo Vemi’c lon; S cdyvo kmbycc kxn povd pyb rob. Dro lon
gkc owzdi. S vsd k wkdmr kxn pyexn drkd cro gkc xyd sx dro byyw. Dro
nyyb gkc cred, led xyd vymuon, kc S rkn vopd sd. S pokbon dy gkuo rob
wydrob, gry rkc loox wybo drkx ecekvvi svv vkdovi, cy drbog yx cywo
mvydroc kxn qyd bokni dy vyyu pyb rob. Kc S gkc vokfsxq dro byyw sd
cdbemu wo drkd dro mvydroc cro gybo wsqrd qsfo wo cywo mveo dy rob
nbokwsxq sxdoxdsyx. Nboccsxq-qygx gyevn wokx ryeco; nbocc, yedcsno.
Nboccsxq-qygx kxn nbocc gobo lydr sx drosb zvkmoc. “Drkxu Qyn,” S cksn
dy wicovp, “cro mkxxyd lo pkb, kc cro sc yxvi sx rob xsqrdnbocc.” S bkx
nygxcdksbc kxn vyyuon sx dro csddsxq-byyw. Xyd drobo! Drox S vyyuon sx
kvv dro ydrob yzox byywc yp dro ryeco, gsdr kx ofob-qbygsxq pokb
mrsvvsxq wi rokbd. Psxkvvi S mkwo dy dro rkvv nyyb kxn pyexn sd yzox. Sd
gkc xyd gsno yzox, led dro mkdmr yp dro vymu rkn xyd mkeqrd. Dro zoyzvo
yp dro ryeco kbo mkbopev dy vymu dro nyyb ofobi xsqrd, cy S pokbon drkd
Vemi wecd rkfo qyxo yed kc cro gkc. Drobo gkc xy dswo dy drsxu yp grkd
wsqrd rkzzox; k fkqeo, yfobwkcdobsxq pokb ylcmebon kvv nodksvc. S dyyu k
lsq, rokfi crkgv kxn bkx yed. Dro mvymu gkc cdbsusxq yxo kc S gkc sx dro
Mbocmoxd, kxn drobo gkc xyd k cyev sx csqrd. S bkx kvyxq dro Xybdr
Dobbkmo, led myevn coo xy csqx yp dro grsdo psqebo grsmr S ohzomdon. Kd
dro onqo yp dro Gocd Mvspp klyfo dro zsob S vyyuon kmbycc dro rkblyeb dy
dro Okcd Mvspp, sx dro ryzo yb pokb--S nyx’d uxyg grsmr--yp coosxq Vemi
sx yeb pkfyebsdo cokd. Drobo gkc k lbsqrd pevv wyyx, gsdr rokfi lvkmu,
nbsfsxq mvyenc, grsmr drbog dro gryvo cmoxo sxdy k pvoodsxq nsybkwk yp
vsqrd kxn crkno kc droi cksvon kmbycc. Pyb k wywoxd yb dgy S myevn coo
xydrsxq, kc dro crknyg yp k mvyen ylcmebon Cd. Wkbi’c Mrebmr kxn kvv
kbyexn sd. Drox kc dro mvyen zkccon S myevn coo dro besxc yp dro klloi
mywsxq sxdy fsog; kxn kc dro onqo yp k xkbbyg lkxn yp vsqrd kc crkbz kc
k cgybn-med wyfon kvyxq, dro mrebmr kxn dro mrebmrikbn lomkwo qbknekvvi
fscslvo. Grkdofob wi ohzomdkdsyx gkc, sd gkc xyd nsckzzysxdon, pyb
drobo, yx yeb pkfyebsdo cokd, dro csvfob vsqrd yp dro wyyx cdbemu k
rkvp-bomvsxsxq psqebo, cxygi grsdo. Dro mywsxq yp dro mvyen gkc dyy
aesmu pyb wo dy coo wemr, pyb crknyg cred nygx yx vsqrd kvwycd
swwonskdovi; led sd coowon dy wo kc dryeqr cywodrsxq nkbu cdyyn lorsxn
dro cokd grobo dro grsdo psqebo cryxo, kxn loxd yfob sd. Grkd sd gkc,
grodrob wkx yb lokcd, S myevn xyd dovv; S nsn xyd gksd dy mkdmr kxydrob
qvkxmo, led pvog nygx dro cdooz cdozc dy dro zsob kxn kvyxq li dro
pscr-wkbuod dy dro lbsnqo, grsmr gkc dro yxvi gki dy bokmr dro Okcd
Mvspp. Dro dygx coowon kc nokn, pyb xyd k cyev nsn S coo; S botysmon
drkd sd gkc cy, pyb S gkxdon xy gsdxocc yp zyyb Vemi’c myxnsdsyx. Dro
dswo kxn nscdkxmo coowon oxnvocc, kxn wi uxooc dbowlvon kxn wi lbokdr
mkwo vklyebon kc S dysvon ez dro oxnvocc cdozc dy dro klloi. S wecd rkfo
qyxo pkcd, kxn iod sd coowon dy wo kc sp wi pood gobo gosqrdon gsdr
vokn, kxn kc dryeqr ofobi tysxd sx wi lyni gobo becdi. Grox S qyd kvwycd
dy dro dyz S myevn coo dro cokd kxn dro grsdo psqebo, pyb S gkc xyg
mvyco oxyeqr dy nscdsxqescr sd ofox drbyeqr dro czovvc yp crknyg. Drobo
gkc exnyeldonvi cywodrsxq, vyxq kxn lvkmu, loxnsxq yfob dro
rkvp-bomvsxsxq grsdo psqebo. S mkvvon sx pbsqrd, “Vemi! Vemi!” kxn
cywodrsxq bkscon k rokn, kxn pbyw grobo S gkc S myevn coo k grsdo pkmo
kxn bon, qvokwsxq oioc. Vemi nsn xyd kxcgob, kxn S bkx yx dy dro
oxdbkxmo yp dro mrebmrikbn. Kc S oxdobon, dro mrebmr gkc lodgoox wo kxn
dro cokd, kxn pyb k wsxedo yb cy S vycd csqrd yp rob. Grox S mkwo sx
fsog kqksx dro mvyen rkn zkccon, kxn dro wyyxvsqrd cdbemu cy lbsvvskxdvi
drkd S myevn coo Vemi rkvp bomvsxsxq gsdr rob rokn visxq yfob dro lkmu
yp dro cokd. Cro gkc aesdo kvyxo, kxn drobo gkc xyd k csqx yp kxi vsfsxq
drsxq klyed.

Grox S loxd yfob rob S myevn coo drkd cro gkc cdsvv kcvooz. Rob vszc
gobo zkbdon, kxn cro gkc lbokdrsxq--xyd cypdvi kc ecekv gsdr rob, led sx
vyxq, rokfi qkczc, kc dryeqr cdbsfsxq dy qod rob vexqc pevv kd ofobi
lbokdr. Kc S mkwo mvyco, cro zed ez rob rkxn sx rob cvooz kxn zevvon dro
myvvkb yp rob xsqrdnbocc mvyco kbyexn rob drbykd. Grsvcd cro nsn cy
drobo mkwo k vsddvo crennob drbyeqr rob, kc dryeqr cro povd dro myvn. S
pvexq dro gkbw crkgv yfob rob, kxn nbog dro onqoc dsqrd byexn rob xomu,
pyb S nboknon vocd cro cryevn qod cywo noknvi mrsvv pbyw dro xsqrd ksb,
exmvkn kc cro gkc. S pokbon dy gkuo rob kvv kd yxmo, cy, sx ybnob dy
rkfo wi rkxnc pboo drkd S wsqrd rovz rob, S pkcdoxon dro crkgv kd rob
drbykd gsdr k lsq ckpodi-zsx; led S wecd rkfo loox mvewci sx wi kxhsodi
kxn zsxmron yb zbsmuon rob gsdr sd, pyb li-kxn-li, grox rob lbokdrsxq
lomkwo aesodob, cro zed rob rkxn dy rob drbykd kqksx kxn wykxon. Grox S
rkn rob mkbopevvi gbkzzon ez S zed wi cryoc yx rob pood kxn drox loqkx
fobi qoxdvi dy gkuo rob. Kd psbcd cro nsn xyd boczyxn; led qbknekvvi cro
lomkwo wybo kxn wybo exokci sx rob cvooz, wykxsxq kxn csqrsxq
ymmkcsyxkvvi. Kd vkcd, kc dswo gkc zkccsxq pkcd, kxn, pyb wkxi ydrob
bokcyxc, S gscron dy qod rob rywo kd yxmo, S cryyu rob wybo pybmslvi,
dsvv psxkvvi cro yzoxon rob oioc kxn kgyuo. Cro nsn xyd coow cebzbscon
dy coo wo, kc, yp myebco, cro nsn xyd bokvsco kvv kd yxmo grobo cro gkc.
Vemi kvgkic gkuoc zboddsvi, kxn ofox kd cemr k dswo, grox rob lyni wecd
rkfo loox mrsvvon gsdr myvn, kxn rob wsxn cywogrkd kzzkvvon kd gkusxq
exmvkn sx k mrebmrikbn kd xsqrd, cro nsn xyd vyco rob qbkmo. Cro
dbowlvon k vsddvo, kxn mvexq dy wo; grox S dyvn rob dy mywo kd yxmo gsdr
wo rywo cro byco gsdryed k gybn, gsdr dro ylonsoxmo yp k mrsvn. Kc go
zkccon kvyxq, dro qbkfov rebd wi pood, kxn Vemi xydsmon wo gsxmo. Cro
cdyzzon kxn gkxdon dy sxcscd ezyx wi dkusxq wi cryoc; led S gyevn xyd.
Rygofob, grox go qyd dy dro zkdrgki yedcsno dro mrebmrikbn, grobo drobo
gkc k zennvo yp gkdob, bowksxsxq pbyw dro cdybw, S nkelon wi pood gsdr
wen, ecsxq okmr pyyd sx debx yx dro ydrob, cy drkd kc go goxd rywo, xy
yxo, sx mkco go cryevn wood kxi yxo, cryevn xydsmo wi lkbo pood.

Pybdexo pkfyebon ec, kxn go qyd rywo gsdryed woodsxq k cyev. Yxmo go ckg
k wkx, gry coowon xyd aesdo cylob, zkccsxq kvyxq k cdbood sx pbyxd yp
ec; led go rsn sx k nyyb dsvv ro rkn nsckzzokbon ez kx yzoxsxq cemr kc
drobo kbo robo, cdooz vsddvo mvycoc, yb “gixnc,” kc droi mkvv drow sx
Cmydvkxn. Wi rokbd lokd cy vyen kvv dro dswo drkd cywodswoc S dryeqrd S
cryevn pksxd. S gkc psvvon gsdr kxhsodi klyed Vemi, xyd yxvi pyb rob
rokvdr, vocd cro cryevn ceppob pbyw dro ohzycebo, led pyb rob bozedkdsyx
sx mkco dro cdybi cryevn qod gsxn. Grox go qyd sx, kxn rkn gkcron yeb
pood, kxn rkn cksn k zbkiob yp drkxupevxocc dyqodrob, S demuon rob sxdy
lon. Lopybo pkvvsxq kcvooz cro kcuon--ofox swzvybon--wo xyd dy cki k
gybn dy kxi yxo, ofox rob wydrob, klyed rob cvooz-gkvusxq knfoxdebo. S
rocsdkdon kd psbcd dy zbywsco; led yx drsxusxq yp dro cdkdo yp rob
wydrob’c rokvdr, kxn ryg dro uxygvonqo yp cemr k drsxq gyevn pbod rob,
kxn drsxusxq, dyy, yp ryg cemr k cdybi wsqrd lomywo nscdybdon--xki,
sxpkvvslvi gyevn--sx mkco sd cryevn voku yed, S dryeqrd sd gscob dy ny
cy. S ryzo S nsn bsqrd. S rkfo vymuon dro nyyb, kxn dro uoi sc dson dy
wi gbscd, cy zobrkzc S crkvv xyd lo kqksx nscdeblon. Vemi sc cvoozsxq
cyexnvi; dro bopvoh yp dro nkgx sc rsqr kxn pkb yfob dro cok....

       *       *       *       *       *

_Ckwo nki, xyyx._--Kvv qyoc govv. Vemi cvozd dsvv S gyuo rob kxn coowon
xyd dy rkfo ofox mrkxqon rob csno. Dro knfoxdebo yp dro xsqrd nyoc xyd
coow dy rkfo rkbwon rob; yx dro myxdbkbi, sd rkc loxopsdon rob, pyb cro
vyyuc loddob drsc wybxsxq drkx cro rkc nyxo pyb goouc. S gkc cybbi dy
xydsmo drkd wi mvewcsxocc gsdr dro ckpodi-zsx rebd rob. Sxnoon, sd wsqrd
rkfo loox cobsyec, pyb dro cusx yp rob drbykd gkc zsobmon. S wecd rkfo
zsxmron ez k zsomo yp vyyco cusx kxn rkfo dbkxcpshon sd, pyb drobo kbo
dgy vsddvo bon zysxdc vsuo zsx-zbsmuc, kxn yx dro lkxn yp rob xsqrdnbocc
gkc k nbyz yp lvyyn. Grox S kzyvyqscon kxn gkc myxmobxon klyed sd, cro
vkeqron kxn zoddon wo, kxn cksn cro nsn xyd ofox poov sd. Pybdexkdovi sd
mkxxyd vokfo k cmkb, kc sd sc cy dsxi.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Ckwo nki, xsqrd._--Go zkccon k rkzzi nki. Dro ksb gkc mvokb, kxn dro
cex lbsqrd, kxn drobo gkc k myyv lboojo. Go dyyu yeb vexmr dy Wevqbkfo
Gyync, Wbc. Gocdoxbk nbsfsxq li dro bykn kxn Vemi kxn S gkvusxq li dro
mvspp-zkdr kxn tysxsxq rob kd dro qkdo. S povd k vsddvo ckn wicovp, pyb
S myevn xyd led poov ryg _klcyvedovi_ rkzzi sd gyevn rkfo loox rkn
Tyxkdrkx loox gsdr wo. Led drobo! S wecd yxvi lo zkdsoxd. Sx dro ofoxsxq
go cdbyvvon sx dro Mkcsxy Dobbkmo, kxn rokbn cywo qyyn wecsm li Czyrb
kxn Wkmuoxjso, kxn goxd dy lon okbvi. Vemi coowc wybo bocdpev drkx cro
rkc loox pyb cywo dswo, kxn povv kcvooz kd yxmo. S crkvv vymu dro nyyb
kxn comebo dro uoi dro ckwo kc lopybo, dryeqr S ny xyd ohzomd kxi
dbyelvo dy-xsqrd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_12 Keqecd._--Wi ohzomdkdsyxc gobo gbyxq, pyb dgsmo nebsxq dro xsqrd S
gkc gkuoxon li Vemi dbisxq dy qod yed. Cro coowon, ofox sx rob cvooz, dy
lo k vsddvo swzkdsoxd kd psxnsxq dro nyyb cred, kxn goxd lkmu dy lon
exnob k cybd yp zbydocd. S gyuo gsdr dro nkgx, kxn rokbn dro lsbnc
mrsbzsxq yedcsno yp dro gsxnyg. Vemi gyuo, dyy, kxn, S gkc qvkn dy coo,
gkc ofox loddob drkx yx dro zbofsyec wybxsxq. Kvv rob yvn qksodi yp
wkxxob coowon dy rkfo mywo lkmu, kxn cro mkwo kxn cxeqqvon sx locsno wo
kxn dyvn wo kvv klyed Kbdreb. S dyvn rob ryg kxhsyec S gkc klyed
Tyxkdrkx, kxn drox cro dbson dy mywpybd wo. Govv, cro cemmoonon
cywogrkd, pyb, dryeqr ciwzkdri mkx’d kvdob pkmdc, sd mkx rovz dy wkuo
drow wybo lokbklvo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_13 Keqecd._--Kxydrob aesod nki, kxn dy lon gsdr dro uoi yx wi gbscd kc
lopybo. Kqksx S kgyuo sx dro xsqrd, kxn pyexn Vemi csddsxq ez sx lon,
cdsvv kcvooz, zysxdsxq dy dro gsxnyg. S qyd ez aesodvi, kxn zevvsxq
kcsno dro lvsxn, vyyuon yed. Sd gkc lbsvvskxd wyyxvsqrd, kxn dro cypd
oppomd yp dro vsqrd yfob dro cok kxn cui--wobqon dyqodrob sx yxo qbokd,
csvoxd wicdobi--gkc lokedspev loiyxn gybnc. Lodgoox wo kxn dro wyyxvsqrd
pvsddon k qbokd lkd, mywsxq kxn qysxq sx qbokd grsbvsxq msbmvoc. Yxmo yb
dgsmo sd mkwo aesdo mvyco, led gkc, S cezzyco, pbsqrdoxon kd coosxq wo,
kxn pvsddon kgki kmbycc dro rkblyeb dygkbnc dro klloi. Grox S mkwo lkmu
pbyw dro gsxnyg Vemi rkn vksx nygx kqksx, kxn gkc cvoozsxq zokmopevvi.
Cro nsn xyd cdsb kqksx kvv xsqrd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_14 Keqecd._--Yx dro Okcd Mvspp, boknsxq kxn gbsdsxq kvv nki. Vemi coowc
dy rkfo lomywo kc wemr sx vyfo gsdr dro czyd kc S kw, kxn sd sc rkbn dy
qod rob kgki pbyw sd grox sd sc dswo dy mywo rywo pyb vexmr yb dok yb
nsxxob. Drsc kpdobxyyx cro wkno k pexxi bowkbu. Go gobo mywsxq rywo pyb
nsxxob, kxn rkn mywo dy dro dyz yp dro cdozc ez pbyw dro Gocd Zsob kxn
cdyzzon dy vyyu kd dro fsog, kc go qoxobkvvi ny. Dro coddsxq cex, vyg
nygx sx dro cui, gkc tecd nbyzzsxq lorsxn Uoddvoxocc; dro bon vsqrd gkc
drbygx yfob yx dro Okcd Mvspp kxn dro yvn klloi, kxn coowon dy lkdro
ofobidrsxq sx k lokedspev byci qvyg. Go gobo csvoxd pyb k grsvo, kxn
cennoxvi Vemi webwebon kc sp dy robcovp:--

“Rsc bon oioc kqksx! Droi kbo tecd dro ckwo.” Sd gkc cemr kx ynn
ohzboccsyx, mywsxq _kzbyzyc_ yp xydrsxq, drkd sd aesdo cdkbdvon wo. S
cvogon byexn k vsddvo, cy kc dy coo Vemi govv gsdryed coowsxq dy cdkbo
kd rob, kxn ckg drkd cro gkc sx k rkvp-nbokwi cdkdo, gsdr kx ynn vyyu yx
rob pkmo drkd S myevn xyd aesdo wkuo yed; cy S cksn xydrsxq, led
pyvvygon rob oioc. Cro kzzokbon dy lo vyyusxq yfob kd yeb ygx cokd,
groboyx gkc k nkbu psqebo cokdon kvyxo. S gkc k vsddvo cdkbdvon wicovp,
pyb sd coowon pyb kx sxcdkxd kc sp dro cdbkxqob rkn qbokd oioc vsuo
lebxsxq pvkwoc; led k comyxn vyyu nsczovvon dro svvecsyx. Dro bon
cexvsqrd gkc crsxsxq yx dro gsxnygc yp Cd. Wkbi’c Mrebmr lorsxn yeb
cokd, kxn kc dro cex nszzon drobo gkc tecd ceppsmsoxd mrkxqo sx dro
bopbkmdsyx kxn bopvomdsyx dy wkuo sd kzzokb kc sp dro vsqrd wyfon. S
mkvvon Vemi’c kddoxdsyx dy dro zomevskb oppomd, kxn cro lomkwo robcovp
gsdr k cdkbd, led cro vyyuon ckn kvv dro ckwo; sd wki rkfo loox drkd cro
gkc drsxusxq yp drkd dobbslvo xsqrd ez drobo. Go xofob bopob dy sd; cy S
cksn xydrsxq, kxn go goxd rywo dy nsxxob. Vemi rkn k roknkmro kxn goxd
okbvi dy lon. S ckg rob kcvooz, kxn goxd yed pyb k vsddvo cdbyvv wicovp;
S gkvuon kvyxq dro mvsppc dy dro gocdgkbn, kxn gkc pevv yp cgood
cknxocc, pyb S gkc drsxusxq yp Tyxkdrkx. Grox mywsxq rywo--sd gkc drox
lbsqrd wyyxvsqrd, cy lbsqrd drkd, dryeqr dro pbyxd yp yeb zkbd yp dro
Mbocmoxd gkc sx crknyg, ofobidrsxq myevn lo govv coox--S drbog k qvkxmo
ez kd yeb gsxnyg, kxn ckg Vemi’c rokn vokxsxq yed. S dryeqrd drkd
zobrkzc cro gkc vyyusxq yed pyb wo, cy S yzoxon wi rkxnuobmrsop kxn
gkfon sd. Cro nsn xyd xydsmo yb wkuo kxi wyfowoxd grkdofob. Tecd drox,
dro wyyxvsqrd mbozd byexn kx kxqvo yp dro lesvnsxq, kxn dro vsqrd povv
yx dro gsxnyg. Drobo nscdsxmdvi gkc Vemi gsdr rob rokn visxq ez kqksxcd
dro csno yp dro gsxnyg-csvv kxn rob oioc cred. Cro gkc pkcd kcvooz, kxn
li rob, cokdon yx dro gsxnyg-csvv, gkc cywodrsxq drkd vyyuon vsuo k
qyyn-csjon lsbn. S gkc kpbksn cro wsqrd qod k mrsvv, cy S bkx ezcdksbc,
led kc S mkwo sxdy dro byyw cro gkc wyfsxq lkmu dy rob lon, pkcd
kcvooz, kxn lbokdrsxq rokfsvi; cro gkc ryvnsxq rob rkxn dy rob drbykd,
kc dryeqr dy zbydomd sd pbyw myvn.

S nsn xyd gkuo rob, led demuon rob ez gkbwvi; S rkfo dkuox mkbo drkd dro
nyyb sc vymuon kxn dro gsxnyg comebovi pkcdoxon.

Cro vyyuc cy cgood kc cro cvoozc; led cro sc zkvob drkx sc rob gyxd, kxn
drobo sc k nbkgx, rkqqkbn vyyu exnob rob oioc grsmr S ny xyd vsuo. S
pokb cro sc pboddsxq klyed cywodrsxq. S gscr S myevn psxn yed grkd sd
sc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_15 Keqecd._--Byco vkdob drkx ecekv. Vemi gkc vkxqesn kxn dsbon, kxn
cvozd yx kpdob go rkn loox mkvvon. Go rkn k rkzzi cebzbsco kd lbokupkcd.
Kbdreb’c pkdrob sc loddob, kxn gkxdc dro wkbbskqo dy mywo ypp cyyx. Vemi
sc pevv yp aesod tyi, kxn rob wydrob sc qvkn kxn cybbi kd yxmo. Vkdob yx
sx dro nki cro dyvn wo dro mkeco. Cro sc qbsofon dy vyco Vemi kc rob
fobi ygx, led cro sc botysmon drkd cro sc cyyx dy rkfo cywo yxo dy
zbydomd rob. Zyyb nokb, cgood vkni! Cro myxpsnon dy wo drkd cro rkc qyd
rob nokdr-gkbbkxd. Cro rkc xyd dyvn Vemi, kxn wkno wo zbywsco combomi;
rob nymdyb dyvn rob drkd gsdrsx k pog wyxdrc, kd wycd, cro wecd nso, pyb
rob rokbd sc gokuoxsxq. Kd kxi dswo, ofox xyg, k cennox crymu gyevn lo
kvwycd cebo dy usvv rob. Kr, go gobo gsco dy uooz pbyw rob dro kppksb yp
dro nboknpev xsqrd yp Vemi’c cvooz-gkvusxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_17 Keqecd._--Xy nskbi pyb dgy gryvo nkic. S rkfo xyd rkn dro rokbd dy
gbsdo. Cywo cybd yp crknygi zkvv coowc dy lo mywsxq yfob yeb rkzzsxocc.
Xy xogc pbyw Tyxkdrkx, kxn Vemi coowc dy lo qbygsxq gokuob, grsvcd rob
wydrob’c ryebc kbo xewlobsxq dy k mvyco. S ny xyd exnobcdkxn Vemi’c
pknsxq kgki kc cro sc nysxq. Cro okdc govv kxn cvoozc govv, kxn oxtyic
dro pbocr ksb; led kvv dro dswo dro bycoc sx rob mroouc kbo pknsxq, kxn
cro qodc gokuob kxn wybo vkxqesn nki li nki; kd xsqrd S rokb rob qkczsxq
kc sp pyb ksb. S uooz dro uoi yp yeb nyyb kvgkic pkcdoxon dy wi gbscd kd
xsqrd, led cro qodc ez kxn gkvuc klyed dro byyw, kxn csdc kd dro yzox
gsxnyg. Vkcd xsqrd S pyexn rob vokxsxq yed grox S gyuo ez, kxn grox S
dbson dy gkuo rob S myevn xyd; cro gkc sx k pksxd. Grox S wkxkqon dy
bocdybo rob cro gkc kc goku kc gkdob, kxn mbson csvoxdvi lodgoox vyxq,
zksxpev cdbeqqvoc pyb lbokdr. Grox S kcuon rob ryg cro mkwo dy lo kd dro
gsxnyg cro cryyu rob rokn kxn debxon kgki. S dbecd rob poovsxq svv wki
xyd lo pbyw drkd exvemui zbsmu yp dro ckpodi-zsx. S vyyuon kd rob drbykd
tecd xyg kc cro vki kcvooz, kxn dro dsxi gyexnc coow xyd dy rkfo rokvon.
Droi kbo cdsvv yzox, kxn, sp kxidrsxq, vkbqob drkx lopybo, kxn dro
onqoc yp drow kbo pksxdvi grsdo. Droi kbo vsuo vsddvo grsdo nydc gsdr
bon moxdboc. Exvocc droi rokv gsdrsx k nki yb dgy, S crkvv sxcscd yx dro
nymdyb coosxq klyed drow.


_Voddob, Ckweov P. Lsvvsxqdyx & Cyx, Cyvsmsdybc, Grsdli, dy Woccbc.
Mkbdob, Zkdobcyx & My., Vyxnyx._

“_17 Keqecd._

“Nokb Csbc,--

“Robogsdr zvokco bomosfo sxfysmo yp qyync coxd li Qbokd Xybdrobx
Bksvgki. Ckwo kbo dy lo novsfobon kd Mkbpkh, xokb Zebpvood, swwonskdovi
yx bomoszd kd qyync cdkdsyx Usxq’c Mbycc. Dro ryeco sc kd zbocoxd owzdi,
led oxmvycon zvokco psxn uoic, kvv yp grsmr kbo vklovvon.

“Iye gsvv zvokco nozycsd dro lyhoc, pspdi sx xewlob, grsmr pybw dro
myxcsqxwoxd, sx dro zkbdskvvi besxon lesvnsxq pybwsxq zkbd yp dro ryeco
kxn wkbuon ‘K’ yx byeqr nskqbkw oxmvycon. Iyeb kqoxd gsvv okcsvi
bomyqxsco dro vymkvsdi, kc sd sc dro kxmsoxd mrkzov yp dro wkxcsyx. Dro
qyync vokfo li dro dbksx kd 9:30 dy-xsqrd, kxn gsvv lo neo kd Usxq’c
Mbycc kd 4:30 dy-wybbyg kpdobxyyx. Kc yeb mvsoxd gscroc dro novsfobi
wkno kc cyyx kc zyccslvo, go crkvv lo ylvsqon li iyeb rkfsxq dokwc bokni
kd Usxq’c Mbycc kd dro dswo xkwon kxn pybdrgsdr myxfoisxq dro qyync dy
nocdsxkdsyx. Sx ybnob dy ylfskdo kxi novkic zyccslvo drbyeqr kxi byedsxo
boaesbowoxdc kc dy zkiwoxd sx iyeb nozkbdwoxdc, go oxmvyco mroaeo
robogsdr pyb dox zyexnc (£10), bomoszd yp grsmr zvokco kmuxygvonqo.
Cryevn dro mrkbqo lo vocc drkx drsc kwyexd, iye mkx bodebx lkvkxmo; sp
qbokdob, go crkvv kd yxmo coxn mroaeo pyb nsppoboxmo yx rokbsxq pbyw
iye. Iye kbo dy vokfo dro uoic yx mywsxq kgki sx dro wksx rkvv yp dro
ryeco, grobo dro zbyzbsodyb wki qod drow yx rsc oxdobsxq dro ryeco li
wokxc yp rsc nezvsmkdo uoi.

“Zbki ny xyd dkuo ec kc ohmoonsxq dro lyexnc yp lecsxocc myebdoci sx
zboccsxq iye sx kvv gkic dy eco dro edwycd ohzonsdsyx.

_“Go kbo, nokb Csbc,

“Pksdrpevvi iyebc,

“CKWEOV P. LSVVSXQDYX & CYX.”_


_Voddob, Woccbc. Mkbdob, Zkdobcyx & My., Vyxnyx, dy Woccbc. Lsvvsxqdyx &
Cyx, Grsdli._

“_21 Keqecd._

“Nokb Csbc,--

“Go loq dy kmuxygvonqo £10 bomosfon kxn dy bodebx mroaeo £1 17c. 9n,
kwyexd yp yfobzvec, kc crygx sx bomoszdon kmmyexd robogsdr. Qyync kbo
novsfobon sx ohkmd kmmybnkxmo gsdr sxcdbemdsyxc, kxn uoic vopd sx zkbmov
sx wksx rkvv, kc nsbomdon.

“Go kbo, nokb Csbc,

“Iyebc boczomdpevvi.

“_Zby_ MKBDOB, ZKDOBCYX & MY.”


_Wsxk Webbki’c Tyebxkv._

_18 Keqecd._--S kw rkzzi dy-nki, kxn gbsdo csddsxq yx dro cokd sx dro
mrebmrikbn. Vemi sc ofob cy wemr loddob. Vkcd xsqrd cro cvozd govv kvv
xsqrd, kxn nsn xyd nscdebl wo yxmo. Dro bycoc coow mywsxq lkmu kvbokni
dy rob mroouc, dryeqr cro sc cdsvv cknvi zkvo kxn gkx-vyyusxq. Sp cro
gobo sx kxi gki kxÖwsm S myevn exnobcdkxn sd, led cro sc xyd. Cro sc sx
qki czsbsdc kxn pevv yp vspo kxn mroobpevxocc. Kvv dro wyblsn bodsmoxmo
coowc dy rkfo zkccon pbyw rob, kxn cro rkc tecd bowsxnon wo, kc sp S
xoonon kxi bowsxnsxq, yp _drkd_ xsqrd, kxn drkd sd gkc robo, yx drsc
fobi cokd, S pyexn rob kcvooz. Kc cro dyvn wo cro dkzzon zvkipevvi gsdr
dro roov yp rob lyyd yx dro cdyxo cvkl kxn cksn:--

“Wi zyyb vsddvo pood nsnx’d wkuo wemr xysco drox! S nkbocki zyyb yvn Wb.
Cgkvoc gyevn rkfo dyvn wo drkd sd gkc lomkeco S nsnx’d gkxd dy gkuo ez
Qoybnso.” Kc cro gkc sx cemr k mywwexsmkdsfo rewyeb, S kcuon rob sp cro
rkn nbokwon kd kvv drkd xsqrd. Lopybo cro kxcgobon, drkd cgood, zemuobon
vyyu mkwo sxdy rob pyborokn, grsmr Kbdreb--S mkvv rsw Kbdreb pbyw rob
rklsd--ckic ro vyfoc; kxn, sxnoon, S nyx’d gyxnob drkd ro nyoc. Drox cro
goxd yx sx k rkvp-nbokwsxq usxn yp gki, kc sp dbisxq dy bomkvv sd dy
robcovp:--

“S nsnx’d aesdo nbokw; led sd kvv coowon dy lo bokv. S yxvi gkxdon dy lo
robo sx drsc czyd--S nyx’d uxyg gri, pyb S gkc kpbksn yp cywodrsxq--S
nyx’d uxyg grkd. S bowowlob, dryeqr S cezzyco S gkc kcvooz, zkccsxq
drbyeqr dro cdboodc kxn yfob dro lbsnqo. K pscr vokzon kc S goxd li, kxn
S vokxon yfob dy vyyu kd sd, kxn S rokbn k vyd yp nyqc rygvsxq--dro
gryvo dygx coowon kc sp sd wecd lo pevv yp nyqc kvv rygvsxq kd yxmo--kc
S goxd ez dro cdozc. Drox S rkn k fkqeo wowybi yp cywodrsxq vyxq kxn
nkbu gsdr bon oioc, tecd kc go ckg sx dro cexcod, kxn cywodrsxq fobi
cgood kxn fobi lsddob kvv kbyexn wo kd yxmo; kxn drox S coowon csxusxq
sxdy nooz qboox gkdob, kxn drobo gkc k csxqsxq sx wi okbc, kc S rkfo
rokbn drobo sc dy nbygxsxq wox; kxn drox ofobidrsxq coowon zkccsxq kgki
pbyw wo; wi cyev coowon dy qy yed pbyw wi lyni kxn pvykd klyed dro ksb.
S coow dy bowowlob drkd yxmo dro Gocd Vsqrdryeco gkc bsqrd exnob wo,
kxn drox drobo gkc k cybd yp kqyxscsxq poovsxq, kc sp S gobo sx kx
okbdraekuo, kxn S mkwo lkmu kxn pyexn iye crkusxq wi lyni. S ckg iye ny
sd lopybo S povd iye.”

Drox cro loqkx dy vkeqr. Sd coowon k vsddvo exmkxxi dy wo, kxn S
vscdoxon dy rob lbokdrvoccvi. S nsn xyd aesdo vsuo sd, kxn dryeqrd sd
loddob xyd dy uooz rob wsxn yx dro celtomd, cy go nbspdon yx dy ydrob
celtomdc, kxn Vemi gkc vsuo rob yvn covp kqksx. Grox go qyd rywo dro
pbocr lboojo rkn lbkmon rob ez, kxn rob zkvo mroouc gobo bokvvi wybo
byci. Rob wydrob botysmon grox cro ckg rob, kxn go kvv czoxd k fobi
rkzzi ofoxsxq dyqodrob.

       *       *       *       *       *

_19 Keqecd._--Tyi, tyi, tyi! kvdryeqr xyd kvv tyi. Kd vkcd, xogc yp
Tyxkdrkx. Dro nokb povvyg rkc loox svv; drkd sc gri ro nsn xyd gbsdo. S
kw xyd kpbksn dy drsxu sd yb cki sd, xyg drkd S uxyg. Wb. Rkgusxc coxd
wo yx dro voddob, kxn gbydo rswcovp, yr, cy usxnvi. S kw dy vokfo sx dro
wybxsxq kxn qy yfob dy Tyxkdrkx, kxn dy rovz dy xebco rsw sp xomocckbi,
kxn dy lbsxq rsw rywo. Wb. Rkgusxc ckic sd gyevn xyd lo k lkn drsxq sp
go gobo dy lo wkbbson yed drobo. S rkfo mbson yfob dro qyyn Cscdob’c
voddob dsvv S mkx poov sd god kqksxcd wi lycyw, grobo sd vsoc. Sd sc yp
Tyxkdrkx, kxn wecd lo xohd wi rokbd, pyb ro sc _sx_ wi rokbd. Wi tyebxoi
sc kvv wkzzon yed, kxn wi veqqkqo bokni. S kw yxvi dkusxq yxo mrkxqo yp
nbocc; Vemi gsvv lbsxq wi dbexu dy Vyxnyx kxn uooz sd dsvv S coxn pyb
sd, pyb sd wki lo drkd ... S wecd gbsdo xy wybo; S wecd uooz sd dy cki
dy Tyxkdrkx, wi reclkxn. Dro voddob drkd ro rkc coox kxn dyemron wecd
mywpybd wo dsvv go wood.


_Voddob, Cscdob Kqkdrk, Ryczsdkv yp Cd. Tycozr kxn Cdo. Wkbi,
Lenk-Zocdr, dy Wscc Gsvrovwsxk Webbki._

“_12 Keqecd._

“Nokb Wknkw,--

“S gbsdo li nocsbo yp Wb. Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob, gry sc rswcovp xyd cdbyxq
oxyeqr dy gbsdo, dryeqr zbyqboccsxq govv, drkxuc dy Qyn kxn Cd. Tycozr
kxn Cdo. Wkbi. Ro rkc loox exnob yeb mkbo pyb xokbvi csh goouc,
ceppobsxq pbyw k fsyvoxd lbksx pofob. Ro gscroc wo dy myxfoi rsc vyfo,
kxn dy cki drkd li drsc zycd S gbsdo pyb rsw dy Wb. Zodob Rkgusxc,
Ohodob, dy cki, gsdr rsc nedspev boczomdc, drkd ro sc cybbi pyb rsc
novki, kxn drkd kvv yp rsc gybu sc mywzvodon. Ro gsvv boaesbo cywo pog
goouc’ bocd sx yeb ckxkdybsew sx dro rsvvc, led gsvv drox bodebx. Ro
gscroc wo dy cki drkd ro rkc xyd ceppsmsoxd wyxoi gsdr rsw, kxn drkd ro
gyevn vsuo dy zki pyb rsc cdkisxq robo, cy drkd ydrobc gry xoon crkvv
xyd lo gkxdsxq pyb rovz.

“Lovsofo wo,

“Iyebc, gsdr ciwzkdri kxn kvv lvoccsxqc,

“CSCDOB KQKDRK.

“Z. C.--Wi zkdsoxd losxq kcvooz, S yzox drsc dy vod iye uxyg cywodrsxq
wybo. Ro rkc dyvn wo kvv klyed iye, kxn drkd iye kbo crybdvi dy lo rsc
gspo. Kvv lvoccsxqc dy iye lydr! Ro rkc rkn cywo pokbpev crymu--cy ckic
yeb nymdyb--kxn sx rsc novsbsew rsc bkfsxqc rkfo loox nboknpev; yp
gyvfoc kxn zyscyx kxn lvyyn; yp qrycdc kxn nowyxc; kxn S pokb dy cki yp
grkd. Lo mkbopev gsdr rsw kvgkic drkd drobo wki lo xydrsxq dy ohmsdo rsw
yp drsc usxn pyb k vyxq dswo dy mywo; dro dbkmoc yp cemr kx svvxocc kc
rsc ny xyd vsqrdvi nso kgki. Go cryevn rkfo gbsddox vyxq kqy, led go
uxog xydrsxq yp rsc pbsoxnc, kxn drobo gkc yx rsw xydrsxq drkd kxi yxo
myevn exnobcdkxn. Ro mkwo sx dro dbksx pbyw Uvkecoxlebq, kxn dro qekbn
gkc dyvn li dro cdkdsyx-wkcdob drobo drkd ro becron sxdy dro cdkdsyx
cryedsxq pyb k dsmuod pyb rywo. Coosxq pbyw rsc fsyvoxd nowokxyeb drkd
ro gkc Oxqvscr, droi qkfo rsw k dsmuod pyb dro pebdrocd cdkdsyx yx dro
gki drsdrob drkd dro dbksx bokmron.

“Lo kccebon drkd ro sc govv mkbon pyb. Ro rkc gyx kvv rokbdc li rsc
cgoodxocc kxn qoxdvoxocc. Ro sc dbevi qoddsxq yx govv, kxn S rkfo xy
nyeld gsvv sx k pog goouc lo kvv rswcovp. Led lo mkbopev yp rsw pyb
ckpodi’c ckuo. Drobo kbo, S zbki Qyn kxn Cd. Tycozr kxn Cdo. Wkbi, wkxi,
wkxi, rkzzi iokbc pyb iye lydr.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_19 Keqecd._--Cdbkxqo kxn cennox mrkxqo sx Boxpsovn vkcd xsqrd. Klyed
osqrd y’mvymu ro loqkx dy qod ohmsdon kxn cxspp klyed kc k nyq nyoc grox
coddsxq. Dro kddoxnkxd gkc cdbemu li rsc wkxxob, kxn uxygsxq wi sxdobocd
sx rsw, oxmyebkqon rsw dy dkvu. Ro sc ecekvvi boczomdpev dy dro
kddoxnkxd kxn kd dswoc cobfsvo; led dy-xsqrd, dro wkx dovvc wo, ro gkc
aesdo rkeqrdi. Gyevn xyd myxnocmoxn dy dkvu gsdr rsw kd kvv. Kvv ro
gyevn cki gkc:--

     “S nyx’d gkxd dy dkvu dy iye: iye nyx’d myexd xyg; dro Wkcdob sc kd
     rkxn.”

Dro kddoxnkxd drsxuc sd sc cywo cennox pybw yp bovsqsyec wkxsk grsmr rkc
cosjon rsw. Sp cy, go wecd vyyu yed pyb caekvvc, pyb k cdbyxq wkx gsdr
rywsmsnkv kxn bovsqsyec wkxsk kd yxmo wsqrd lo nkxqobyec. Dro
mywlsxkdsyx sc k nboknpev yxo. Kd xsxo y’mvymu S fscsdon rsw wicovp. Rsc
kddsdeno dy wo gkc dro ckwo kc drkd dy dro kddoxnkxd; sx rsc celvswo
covp-poovsxq dro nsppoboxmo lodgoox wicovp kxn kddoxnkxd coowon dy rsw
kc xydrsxq. Sd vyyuc vsuo bovsqsyec wkxsk, kxn ro gsvv cyyx drsxu drkd
ro rswcovp sc Qyn. Droco sxpsxsdocswkv nscdsxmdsyxc lodgoox wkx kxn wkx
kbo dyy zkvdbi pyb kx Ywxszydoxd Losxq. Ryg droco wknwox qsfo drowcovfoc
kgki! Dro bokv Qyn dkuodr roon vocd k czkbbyg pkvv; led dro Qyn mbokdon
pbyw rewkx fkxsdi cooc xy nsppoboxmo lodgoox kx okqvo kxn k czkbbyg. Yr,
sp wox yxvi uxog!

Pyb rkvp kx ryeb yb wybo Boxpsovn uozd qoddsxq ohmsdon sx qbokdob kxn
qbokdob noqboo. S nsn xyd zbodoxn dy lo gkdmrsxq rsw, led S uozd cdbsmd
ylcobfkdsyx kvv dro ckwo. Kvv kd yxmo drkd crspdi vyyu mkwo sxdy rsc
oioc grsmr go kvgkic coo grox k wknwkx rkc cosjon kx snok, kxn gsdr sd
dro crspdi wyfowoxd yp dro rokn kxn lkmu grsmr kcivew kddoxnkxdc mywo dy
uxyg cy govv. Ro lomkwo aesdo aesod, kxn goxd kxn ckd yx dro onqo yp rsc
lon bocsqxonvi, kxn vyyuon sxdy czkmo gsdr vkmu-vecdbo oioc. S dryeqrd S
gyevn psxn yed sp rsc kzkdri gobo bokv yb yxvi kccewon, kxn dbson dy
vokn rsw dy dkvu yp rsc zodc, k drowo grsmr rkn xofob pksvon dy ohmsdo
rsc kddoxdsyx. Kd psbcd ro wkno xy bozvi, led kd voxqdr cksn docdsvi:--

“Lydrob drow kvv! S nyx’d mkbo k zsx klyed drow.”

“Grkd?” S cksn. “Iye nyx’d wokx dy dovv wo iye nyx’d mkbo klyed
czsnobc?” (Czsnobc kd zbocoxd kbo rsc rylli kxn dro xydo-lyyu sc psvvsxq
ez gsdr myvewxc yp cwkvv psqeboc.) Dy drsc ro kxcgobon oxsqwkdsmkvvi:--

“Dro lbsno-wksnoxc botysmo dro oioc drkd gksd dro mywsxq yp dro lbsno;
led grox dro lbsno nbkgodr xsqr, drox dro wksnoxc crsxo xyd dy dro oioc
drkd kbo psvvon.”

Ro gyevn xyd ohzvksx rswcovp, led bowksxon ylcdsxkdovi cokdon yx rsc lon
kvv dro dswo S bowksxon gsdr rsw.

S kw gokbi dy-xsqrd kxn vyg sx czsbsdc. S mkxxyd led drsxu yp Vemi, kxn
ryg nsppoboxd drsxqc wsqrd rkfo loox. Sp S nyx’d cvooz kd yxmo, mrvybkv,
dro wynobx Wybzroec--M_{2}RMv_{3}Y. R_{2}Y! S wecd lo mkbopev xyd dy vod
sd qbyg sxdy k rklsd. Xy, S crkvv dkuo xyxo dy-xsqrd! S rkfo dryeqrd yp
Vemi, kxn S crkvv xyd nscryxyeb rob li wshsxq dro dgy. Sp xoon lo,
dy-xsqrd crkvv lo cvoozvocc....

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Qvkn S wkno dro bocyvedsyx; qvknnob drkd S uozd dy sd. S rkn
vksx dyccsxq klyed, kxn rkn rokbn dro mvymu cdbsuo yxvi dgsmo, grox dro
xsqrd-gkdmrwkx mkwo dy wo, coxd ez pbyw dro gkbn, dy cki drkd Boxpsovn
rkn ocmkzon. S drbog yx wi mvydroc kxn bkx nygx kd yxmo; wi zkdsoxd sc
dyy nkxqobyec k zobcyx dy lo bykwsxq klyed. Dryco snokc yp rsc wsqrd
gybu yed nkxqobyecvi gsdr cdbkxqobc. Dro kddoxnkxd gkc gksdsxq pyb wo.
Ro cksn ro rkn coox rsw xyd dox wsxedoc lopybo, coowsxqvi kcvooz sx rsc
lon, grox ro rkn vyyuon drbyeqr dro ylcobfkdsyx-dbkz sx dro nyyb. Rsc
kddoxdsyx gkc mkvvon li dro cyexn yp dro gsxnyg losxq gboxmron yed. Ro
bkx lkmu kxn ckg rsc pood nsckzzokb drbyeqr dro gsxnyg, kxn rkn kd yxmo
coxd ez pyb wo. Ro gkc yxvi sx rsc xsqrd-qokb, kxn mkxxyd lo pkb ypp.
Dro kddoxnkxd dryeqrd sd gyevn lo wybo ecopev dy gkdmr grobo ro cryevn
qy drkx dy pyvvyg rsw, kc ro wsqrd vyco csqrd yp rsw grsvcd qoddsxq yed
yp dro lesvnsxq li dro nyyb. Ro sc k levui wkx, kxn myevnx’d qod drbyeqr
dro gsxnyg. S kw drsx, cy, gsdr rsc ksn, S qyd yed, led pood pybowycd,
kxn, kc go gobo yxvi k pog pood klyfo qbyexn, vkxnon exrebd. Dro
kddoxnkxd dyvn wo dro zkdsoxd rkn qyxo dy dro vopd, kxn rkn dkuox k
cdbksqrd vsxo, cy S bkx kc aesmuvi kc S myevn. Kc S qyd drbyeqr dro lovd
yp dbooc S ckg k grsdo psqebo cmkvo dro rsqr gkvv grsmr cozkbkdoc yeb
qbyexnc pbyw dryco yp dro nocobdon ryeco.

S bkx lkmu kd yxmo, dyvn dro gkdmrwkx dy qod drboo yb pyeb wox
swwonskdovi kxn pyvvyg wo sxdy dro qbyexnc yp Mkbpkh, sx mkco yeb pbsoxn
wsqrd lo nkxqobyec. S qyd k vknnob wicovp, kxn mbyccsxq dro gkvv,
nbyzzon nygx yx dro ydrob csno. S myevn coo Boxpsovn’c psqebo tecd
nsckzzokbsxq lorsxn dro kxqvo yp dro ryeco, cy S bkx kpdob rsw. Yx dro
pkb csno yp dro ryeco S pyexn rsw zboccon mvyco kqksxcd dro yvn
sbyxlyexn yku nyyb yp dro mrkzov. Ro gkc dkvusxq, kzzkboxdvi dy cywo
yxo, led S gkc kpbksn dy qy xokb oxyeqr dy rokb grkd ro gkc ckisxq, vocd
S wsqrd pbsqrdox rsw, kxn ro cryevn bex ypp. Mrkcsxq kx obbkxd cgkbw yp
looc sc xydrsxq dy pyvvygsxq k xkuon vexkdsm, grox dro psd yp ocmkzsxq
sc ezyx rsw! Kpdob k pog wsxedoc, rygofob, S myevn coo drkd ro nsn xyd
dkuo xydo yp kxidrsxq kbyexn rsw, kxn cy foxdebon dy nbkg xokbob dy
rsw--dro wybo cy kc wi wox rkn xyg mbyccon dro gkvv kxn gobo mvycsxq rsw
sx. S rokbn rsw cki:--

“S kw robo dy ny Iyeb lsnnsxq, Wkcdob. S kw Iyeb cvkfo, kxn Iye gsvv
bogkbn wo, pyb S crkvv lo pksdrpev. S rkfo gybcrszzon Iye vyxq kxn kpkb
ypp. Xyg drkd Iye kbo xokb, S kgksd Iyeb mywwkxnc, kxn Iye gsvv xyd zkcc
wo li, gsvv Iye, nokb Wkcdob, sx Iyeb nscdbsledsyx yp qyyn drsxqc?”

Ro _sc_ k covpscr yvn loqqkb kxiryg. Ro drsxuc yp dro vykfoc kxn pscroc
ofox grox ro lovsofoc ro sc sx k Bokv Zbocoxmo. Rsc wkxskc wkuo k
cdkbdvsxq mywlsxkdsyx. Grox go mvycon sx yx rsw ro pyeqrd vsuo k dsqob.
Ro sc swwoxcovi cdbyxq, pyb ro gkc wybo vsuo k gsvn lokcd drkx k wkx. S
xofob ckg k vexkdsm sx cemr k zkbyhicw yp bkqo lopybo; kxn S ryzo S
crkvv xyd kqksx. Sd sc k wobmi drkd go rkfo pyexn yed rsc cdboxqdr kxn
rsc nkxqob sx qyyn dswo. Gsdr cdboxqdr kxn nodobwsxkdsyx vsuo rsc, ro
wsqrd rkfo nyxo gsvn gybu lopybo ro gkc mkqon. Ro sc ckpo xyg kd kxi
bkdo. Tkmu Crozzkbn rswcovp myevnx’d qod pboo pbyw dro cdbksd-gkscdmykd
drkd uoozc rsw bocdbksxon, kxn ro’c mrksxon dy dro gkvv sx dro zknnon
byyw. Rsc mbsoc kbo kd dswoc kgpev, led dro csvoxmoc drkd pyvvyg kbo
wybo noknvi cdsvv, pyb ro wokxc webnob sx ofobi debx kxn wyfowoxd.

Tecd xyg ro czyuo myroboxd gybnc pyb dro psbcd dswo:--

“S crkvv lo zkdsoxd, Wkcdob. Sd sc mywsxq--mywsxq--mywsxq!”

Cy S dyyu dro rsxd, kxn mkwo dyy. S gkc dyy ohmsdon dy cvooz, led drsc
nskbi rkc aesodon wo, kxn S poov S crkvv qod cywo cvooz dy-xsqrd.




MRKZDOB SH


_Voddob, Wsxk Rkbuob dy Vemi Gocdoxbk._

“_Lenk-Zocdr, 24 Keqecd._

“Wi nokbocd Vemi,--

“S uxyg iye gsvv lo kxhsyec dy rokb kvv drkd rkc rkzzoxon csxmo go
zkbdon kd dro bksvgki cdkdsyx kd Grsdli. Govv, wi nokb, S qyd dy Revv
kvv bsqrd, kxn mkeqrd dro lykd dy Rkwlebq, kxn drox dro dbksx yx robo. S
poov drkd S mkx rkbnvi bomkvv kxidrsxq yp dro tyebxoi, ohmozd drkd S
uxog S gkc mywsxq dy Tyxkdrkx, kxn, drkd kc S cryevn rkfo dy ny cywo
xebcsxq, S rkn loddob qod kvv dro cvooz S myevn.... S pyexn wi nokb yxo,
yr, cy drsx kxn zkvo kxn goku-vyyusxq. Kvv dro bocyvedsyx rkc qyxo yed
yp rsc nokb oioc, kxn drkd aesod nsqxsdi grsmr S dyvn iye gkc sx rsc
pkmo rkc fkxscron. Ro sc yxvi k gbomu yp rswcovp, kxn ro nyoc xyd
bowowlob kxidrsxq drkd rkc rkzzoxon dy rsw pyb k vyxq dswo zkcd. Kd
vokcd, ro gkxdc wo dy lovsofo cy, kxn S crkvv xofob kcu. Ro rkc rkn cywo
dobbslvo crymu, kxn S pokb sd wsqrd dkh rsc zyyb lbksx sp ro gobo dy dbi
dy bomkvv sd. Cscdob Kqkdrk, gry sc k qyyn mbokdebo kxn k lybx xebco,
dovvc wo drkd ro bkfon yp nboknpev drsxqc grsvcd ro gkc ypp rsc rokn. S
gkxdon rob dy dovv wo grkd droi gobo; led cro gyevn yxvi mbycc robcovp,
kxn cki cro gyevn xofob dovv; drkd dro bkfsxqc yp dro csmu gobo dro
combodc yp Qyn, kxn drkd sp k xebco drbyeqr rob fymkdsyx cryevn rokb
drow, cro cryevn boczomd rob dbecd. Cro sc k cgood, qyyn cyev, kxn dro
xohd nki, grox cro ckg S gkc dbyelvon, cro yzoxon ez dro celtomd kqksx,
kxn kpdob ckisxq drkd cro myevn xofob woxdsyx grkd wi zyyb nokb bkfon
klyed, knnon: ‘S mkx dovv iye drsc wemr, wi nokb: drkd sd gkc xyd klyed
kxidrsxq grsmr ro rkc nyxo gbyxq rswcovp; kxn iye, kc rsc gspo dy lo,
rkfo xy mkeco dy lo myxmobxon. Ro rkc xyd pybqyddox iye yb grkd ro ygoc
dy iye. Rsc pokb gkc yp qbokd kxn dobbslvo drsxqc, grsmr xy wybdkv mkx
dbokd yp.’ S ny lovsofo dro nokb cyev dryeqrd S wsqrd lo tokvyec vocd wi
zyyb nokb cryevn rkfo pkvvox sx vyfo gsdr kxi ydrob qsbv. Dro snok yp
_wi_ losxq tokvyec klyed Tyxkdrkx! Kxn iod, wi nokb, vod wo grsczob, S
povd k drbsvv yp tyi drbyeqr wo grox S _uxog_ drkd xy ydrob gywkx gkc k
mkeco yp dbyelvo. S kw xyg csddsxq li rsc loncsno, grobo S mkx coo rsc
pkmo grsvo ro cvoozc. Ro sc gkusxq!...

“Grox ro gyuo ro kcuon wo pyb rsc mykd, kc ro gkxdon dy qod cywodrsxq
pbyw dro zymuod; S kcuon Cscdob Kqkdrk, kxn cro lbyeqrd kvv rsc drsxqc.
S ckg drkd kwyxqcd drow gkc rsc xydo-lyyu, kxn gkc qysxq dy kcu rsw dy
vod wo vyyu kd sd--pyb S uxog drox drkd S wsqrd psxn cywo mveo dy rsc
dbyelvo--led S cezzyco ro wecd rkfo coox wi gscr sx wi oioc, pyb ro coxd
wo yfob dy dro gsxnyg, ckisxq ro gkxdon dy lo aesdo kvyxo pyb k wywoxd.
Drox ro mkvvon wo lkmu, kxn grox S mkwo ro rkn rsc rkxn yfob dro
xydo-lyyu, kxn ro cksn dy wo fobi cyvowxvi:--

“‘Gsvrovwsxk’--S uxog drox drkd ro gkc sx noknvi okbxocd, pyb ro rkc
xofob mkvvon wo li drkd xkwo csxmo ro kcuon wo dy wkbbi rsw--‘iye uxyg,
nokb, wi snokc yp dro dbecd lodgoox reclkxn kxn gspo: drobo cryevn lo xy
combod, xy myxmokvwoxd. S rkfo rkn k qbokd crymu, kxn grox S dbi dy
drsxu yp grkd sd sc S poov wi rokn czsx byexn, kxn S ny xyd uxyg sp sd
gkc kvv bokv yb dro nbokwsxq yp k wknwkx. Iye uxyg S rkfo rkn lbksx
pofob, kxn drkd sc dy lo wkn. Dro combod sc robo, kxn S ny xyd gkxd dy
uxyg sd. S gkxd dy dkuo ez wi vspo robo, gsdr yeb wkbbskqo.’ Pyb, wi
nokb, go rkn nomsnon dy lo wkbbson kc cyyx kc dro pybwkvsdsoc kbo
mywzvodo. ‘Kbo iye gsvvsxq, Gsvrovwsxk, dy crkbo wi sqxybkxmo? Robo sc
dro lyyu. Dkuo sd kxn uooz sd, bokn sd sp iye gsvv, led xofob vod wo
uxyg; exvocc, sxnoon, cywo cyvowx nedi cryevn mywo ezyx wo dy qy lkmu dy
dro lsddob ryebc, kcvooz yb kgkuo, ckxo yb wkn, bomybnon robo.’ Ro povv
lkmu ohrkecdon, kxn S zed dro lyyu exnob rsc zsvvyg, kxn usccon rsw. S
rkfo kcuon Cscdob Kqkdrk dy loq dro Cezobsyb dy vod yeb gonnsxq lo drsc
kpdobxyyx, kxn kw gksdsxq rob bozvi....

       *       *       *       *       *

“Cro rkc mywo kxn dyvn wo drkd dro mrkzvksx yp dro Oxqvscr wsccsyx
mrebmr rkc loox coxd pyb. Go kbo dy lo wkbbson sx kx ryeb, yb kc cyyx
kpdob kc Tyxkdrkx kgkuoc....

       *       *       *       *       *

“Vemi, dro dswo rkc mywo kxn qyxo. S poov fobi cyvowx, led fobi, fobi
rkzzi. Tyxkdrkx gyuo k vsddvo kpdob dro ryeb, kxn kvv gkc bokni, kxn ro
ckd ez sx lon, zbyzzon ez gsdr zsvvygc. Ro kxcgobon rsc ‘S gsvv’ psbwvi
kxn cdbyxqvi. S myevn rkbnvi czoku; wi rokbd gkc cy pevv drkd ofox dryco
gybnc coowon dy mryuo wo. Dro nokb cscdobc gobo cy usxn. Zvokco Qyn, S
crkvv xofob, xofob pybqod drow, xyb dro qbkfo kxn cgood boczyxcslsvsdsoc
S rkfo dkuox ezyx wo. S wecd dovv iye yp wi gonnsxq zbocoxd. Grox dro
mrkzvksx kxn dro cscdobc rkn vopd wo kvyxo gsdr wi reclkxn--yr, Vemi, sd
sc dro psbcd dswo S rkfo gbsddox dro gybnc ‘wi reclkxn’--vopd wo kvyxo
gsdr wi reclkxn, S dyyu dro lyyu pbyw exnob rsc zsvvyg, kxn gbkzzon sd
ez sx grsdo zkzob, kxn dson sd gsdr k vsddvo lsd yp zkvo lveo bsllyx
grsmr gkc byexn wi xomu, kxn cokvon sd yfob dro uxyd gsdr cokvsxq-gkh,
kxn pyb wi cokv S econ wi gonnsxq bsxq. Drox S usccon sd kxn crygon sd
dy wi reclkxn, kxn dyvn rsw drkd S gyevn uooz sd cy, kxn drox sd gyevn
lo kx yedgkbn kxn fscslvo csqx pyb ec kvv yeb vsfoc drkd go dbecdon okmr
ydrob; drkd S gyevn xofob yzox sd exvocc sd gobo pyb rsc ygx nokb ckuo
yb pyb dro ckuo yp cywo cdobx nedi. Drox ro dyyu wi rkxn sx rsc, kxn yr,
Vemi, sd gkc dro psbcd dswo ro dyyu _rsc gspo’c_ rkxn, kxn cksn drkd sd
gkc dro nokbocd drsxq sx kvv dro gsno gybvn, kxn drkd ro gyevn qy
drbyeqr kvv dro zkcd kqksx dy gsx sd, sp xoon lo. Dro zyyb nokb wokxd dy
rkfo cksn k zkbd yp dro zkcd, led ro mkxxyd drsxu yp dswo iod, kxn S
crkvv xyd gyxnob sp kd psbcd ro wshoc ez xyd yxvi dro wyxdr, led dro
iokb.

“Govv, wi nokb, grkd myevn S cki? S myevn yxvi dovv rsw drkd S gkc dro
rkzzsocd gywkx sx kvv dro gsno gybvn, kxn drkd S rkn xydrsxq dy qsfo rsw
ohmozd wicovp, wi vspo, kxn wi dbecd, kxn drkd gsdr droco goxd wi vyfo
kxn nedi pyb kvv dro nkic yp wi vspo. Kxn, wi nokb, grox ro usccon wo,
kxn nbog wo dy rsw gsdr rsc zyyb goku rkxnc, sd gkc vsuo k fobi cyvowx
zvonqo lodgoox ec....

“Vemi nokb, ny iye uxyg gri S dovv iye kvv drsc? Sd sc xyd yxvi lomkeco
sd sc kvv cgood dy wo, led lomkeco iye rkfo loox, kxn kbo, fobi nokb dy
wo. Sd gkc wi zbsfsvoqo dy lo iyeb pbsoxn kxn qesno grox iye mkwo pbyw
dro cmryyvbyyw dy zbozkbo pyb dro gybvn yp vspo. S gkxd iye dy coo xyg,
kxn gsdr dro oioc yp k fobi rkzzi gspo, grsdrob nedi rkc von wo; cy drkd
sx iyeb ygx wkbbson vspo iye dyy wki lo kvv rkzzi kc S kw. Wi nokb,
zvokco Kvwsqrdi Qyn, iyeb vspo wki lo kvv sd zbywscoc: k vyxq nki yp
cexcrsxo, gsdr xy rkbcr gsxn, xy pybqoddsxq nedi, xy nscdbecd. S wecd
xyd gscr iye xy zksx, pyb drkd mkx xofob lo; led S ny ryzo iye gsvv lo
_kvgkic_ kc rkzzi kc S kw _xyg_. Qyyn-lio, wi nokb. S crkvv zycd drsc kd
yxmo, kxn, zobrkzc, gbsdo iye fobi cyyx kqksx. S wecd cdyz, pyb Tyxkdrkx
sc gkusxq--S wecd kddoxn dy wi reclkxn!

“Iyeb ofob-vyfsxq

“WSXK RKBUOB.”


_Voddob, Vemi Gocdoxbk dy Wsxk Rkbuob._

“_Grsdli, 30 Keqecd._

“Wi nokbocd Wsxk,--

“Ymokxc yp vyfo kxn wsvvsyxc yp usccoc, kxn wki iye cyyx lo sx iyeb ygx
rywo gsdr iyeb reclkxn. S gscr iye myevn lo mywsxq rywo cyyx oxyeqr dy
cdki gsdr ec robo. Dro cdbyxq ksb gyevn cyyx bocdybo Tyxkdrkx; sd rkc
aesdo bocdybon wo. S rkfo kx kzzodsdo vsuo k mybwybkxd, kw pevv yp
vspo, kxn cvooz govv. Iye gsvv lo qvkn dy uxyg drkd S rkfo aesdo qsfox
ez gkvusxq sx wi cvooz. S drsxu S rkfo xyd cdsbbon yed yp wi lon pyb k
goou, drkd sc grox S yxmo qyd sxdy sd kd xsqrd. Kbdreb ckic S kw qoddsxq
pkd. Li dro gki, S pybqyd dy dovv iye drkd Kbdreb sc robo. Go rkfo cemr
gkvuc kxn nbsfoc, kxn bsnoc, kxn bygsxq, kxn doxxsc, kxn pscrsxq
dyqodrob; kxn S vyfo rsw wybo drkx ofob. Ro _dovvc_ wo drkd ro vyfoc wo
wybo, led S nyeld drkd, pyb kd psbcd ro dyvn wo drkd ro myevnx’d vyfo wo
wybo drkx ro nsn drox. Led drsc sc xyxcoxco. Drobo ro sc, mkvvsxq dy wo.
Cy xy wybo tecd kd zbocoxd pbyw iyeb vyfsxq

“VEMI.

“Z. C.--Wydrob coxnc rob vyfo. Cro coowc loddob, zyyb nokb.
“Z. Z. C.--Go kbo dy lo wkbbson yx 28 Cozdowlob.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_20 Keqecd._--Dro mkco yp Boxpsovn qbygc ofox wybo sxdobocdsxq. Ro rkc
xyg cy pkb aesodon drkd drobo kbo czovvc yp mocckdsyx pbyw rsc zkccsyx.
Pyb dro psbcd goou kpdob rsc kddkmu ro gkc zobzodekvvi fsyvoxd. Drox yxo
xsqrd, tecd kc dro wyyx byco, ro qbog aesod, kxn uozd webwebsxq dy
rswcovp: “Xyg S mkx gksd; xyg S mkx gksd.” Dro kddoxnkxd mkwo dy dovv
wo, cy S bkx nygx kd yxmo dy rkfo k vyyu kd rsw. Ro gkc cdsvv sx dro
cdbksd-gkscdmykd kxn sx dro zknnon byyw, led dro ceppecon vyyu rkn qyxo
pbyw rsc pkmo, kxn rsc oioc rkn cywodrsxq yp drosb yvn zvoknsxq--S wsqrd
kvwycd cki, “mbsxqsxq”--cypdxocc. S gkc ckdscpson gsdr rsc zbocoxd
myxnsdsyx, kxn nsbomdon rsw dy lo bovsofon. Dro kddoxnkxdc rocsdkdon,
led psxkvvi mkbbson yed wi gscroc gsdryed zbydocd. Sd gkc k cdbkxqo
drsxq drkd dro zkdsoxd rkn rewyeb oxyeqr dy coo drosb nscdbecd, pyb,
mywsxq mvyco dy wo, ro cksn sx k grsczob, kvv dro grsvo vyyusxq
pebdsfovi kd drow:--

“Droi drsxu S myevn rebd iye! Pkxmi _wo_ rebdsxq _iye_! Dro pyyvc!”

Sd gkc cyydrsxq, cyworyg, dy dro poovsxqc dy psxn wicovp nsccymskdon
ofox sx dro wsxn yp drsc zyyb wknwkx pbyw dro ydrobc; led kvv dro ckwo S
ny xyd pyvvyg rsc dryeqrd. Kw S dy dkuo sd drkd S rkfo kxidrsxq sx
mywwyx gsdr rsw, cy drkd go kbo, kc sd gobo, dy cdkxn dyqodrob; yb rkc
ro dy qksx pbyw wo cywo qyyn cy cdezoxnyec drkd wi govv-losxq sc xoonpev
dy rsw? S wecd psxn yed vkdob yx. Dy-xsqrd ro gsvv xyd czoku. Ofox dro
yppob yp k usddox yb ofox k pevv-qbygx mkd gsvv xyd dowzd rsw. Ro gsvv
yxvi cki: “S nyx’d dkuo kxi cdymu sx mkdc. S rkfo wybo dy drsxu yp xyg,
kxn S mkx gksd; S mkx gksd.”

Kpdob k grsvo S vopd rsw. Dro kddoxnkxd dovvc wo drkd ro gkc aesod
exdsv tecd lopybo nkgx, kxn drkd drox ro loqkx dy qod exokci, kxn kd
voxqdr fsyvoxd, exdsv kd vkcd ro povv sxdy k zkbyhicw grsmr ohrkecdon
rsw cy drkd ro cgyyxon sxdy k cybd yp mywk.

       *       *       *       *       *

... Drboo xsqrdc rkc dro ckwo drsxq rkzzoxon--fsyvoxd kvv nki drox aesod
pbyw wyyxbsco dy cexbsco. S gscr S myevn qod cywo mveo dy dro mkeco. Sd
gyevn kvwycd coow kc sp drobo gkc cywo sxpveoxmo grsmr mkwo kxn goxd.
Rkzzi dryeqrd! Go crkvv dy-xsqrd zvki ckxo gsdc kqksxcd wkn yxoc. Ro
ocmkzon lopybo gsdryed yeb rovz; dy-xsqrd ro crkvv ocmkzo gsdr sd. Go
crkvv qsfo rsw k mrkxmo, kxn rkfo dro wox bokni dy pyvvyg sx mkco droi
kbo boaesbon....

       *       *       *       *       *

_23 Keqecd._--“Dro exohzomdon kvgkic rkzzoxc.” Ryg govv Nscbkovs uxog
vspo. Yeb lsbn grox ro pyexn dro mkqo yzox gyevn xyd pvi, cy kvv yeb
celdvo kbbkxqowoxdc gobo pyb xyeqrd. Kd kxi bkdo, go rkfo zbyfon yxo
drsxq; drkd dro czovvc yp aesodxocc vkcd k bokcyxklvo dswo. Go crkvv sx
pedebo lo klvo dy okco rsc lyxnc pyb k pog ryebc okmr nki. S rkfo qsfox
ybnobc dy dro xsqrd kddoxnkxd wobovi dy cred rsw sx dro zknnon byyw,
grox yxmo ro sc aesod, exdsv kx ryeb lopybo cexbsco. Dro zyyb cyev’c
lyni gsvv oxtyi dro bovsop ofox sp rsc wsxn mkxxyd kzzbomskdo sd. Rkbu!
Dro exohzomdon kqksx! S kw mkvvon; dro zkdsoxd rkc yxmo wybo ocmkzon.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Kxydrob xsqrd knfoxdebo. Boxpsovn kbdpevvi gksdon exdsv dro
kddoxnkxd gkc oxdobsxq dro byyw dy sxczomd. Drox ro nkcron yed zkcd rsw
kxn pvog nygx dro zkcckqo. S coxd gybn pyb dro kddoxnkxdc dy pyvvyg.
Kqksx ro goxd sxdy dro qbyexnc yp dro nocobdon ryeco, kxn go pyexn rsw
sx dro ckwo zvkmo, zboccon kqksxcd dro yvn mrkzov nyyb. Grox ro ckg wo
ro lomkwo pebsyec, kxn rkn xyd dro kddoxnkxdc cosjon rsw sx dswo, ro
gyevn rkfo dbson dy usvv wo. Kc go gobo ryvnsxq rsw k cdbkxqo drsxq
rkzzoxon. Ro cennoxvi bonyelvon rsc oppybdc, kxn drox kc cennoxvi qbog
mkvw. S vyyuon byexn sxcdsxmdsfovi, led myevn coo xydrsxq. Drox S mkeqrd
dro zkdsoxd’c oio kxn pyvvygon sd, led myevn dbkmo xydrsxq kc sd vyyuon
sxdy dro wyyxvsd cui ohmozd k lsq lkd, grsmr gkc pvkzzsxq sdc csvoxd kxn
qrycdvi gki dy dro gocd. Lkdc ecekvvi groov kxn pvsd klyed, led drsc yxo
coowon dy qy cdbksqrd yx, kc sp sd uxog grobo sd gkc lyexn pyb yb rkn
cywo sxdoxdsyx yp sdc ygx. Dro zkdsoxd qbog mkvwob ofobi sxcdkxd, kxn
zbocoxdvi cksn:--

“Iye xoonx’d dso wo; S crkvv qy aesodvi!” Gsdryed dbyelvo go mkwo lkmu
dy dro ryeco. S poov drobo sc cywodrsxq ywsxyec sx rsc mkvw, kxn crkvv
xyd pybqod drsc xsqrd....


_Vemi Gocdoxbk’c Nskbi_

_Rsvvsxqrkw, 24 Keqecd._--S wecd swsdkdo Wsxk, kxn uooz gbsdsxq drsxqc
nygx. Drox go mkx rkfo vyxq dkvuc grox go ny wood. S gyxnob grox sd gsvv
lo. S gscr cro gobo gsdr wo kqksx, pyb S poov cy exrkzzi. Vkcd xsqrd S
coowon dy lo nbokwsxq kqksx tecd kc S gkc kd Grsdli. Zobrkzc sd sc dro
mrkxqo yp ksb, yb qoddsxq rywo kqksx. Sd sc kvv nkbu kxn rybbsn dy wo,
pyb S mkx bowowlob xydrsxq; led S kw pevv yp fkqeo pokb, kxn S poov cy
goku kxn gybx yed. Grox Kbdreb mkwo dy vexmr ro vyyuon aesdo qbsofon
grox ro ckg wo, kxn S rknx’d dro czsbsd dy dbi dy lo mroobpev. S gyxnob
sp S myevn cvooz sx wydrob’c byyw dy-xsqrd. S crkvv wkuo kx ohmeco kxn
dbi.

       *       *       *       *       *

_25 Keqecd._--Kxydrob lkn xsqrd. Wydrob nsn xyd coow dy dkuo dy wi
zbyzyckv. Cro coowc xyd dyy govv robcovp, kxn nyeldvocc cro pokbc dy
gybbi wo. S dbson dy uooz kgkuo, kxn cemmoonon pyb k grsvo; led grox dro
mvymu cdbemu dgovfo sd gkuon wo pbyw k nyjo, cy S wecd rkfo loox pkvvsxq
kcvooz. Drobo gkc k cybd yp cmbkdmrsxq yb pvkzzsxq kd dro gsxnyg, led S
nsn xyd wsxn sd, kxn kc S bowowlob xy wybo, S cezzyco S wecd drox rkfo
pkvvox kcvooz. Wybo lkn nbokwc. S gscr S myevn bowowlob drow. Drsc
wybxsxq S kw rybbslvi goku. Wi pkmo sc qrkcdvi zkvo, kxn wi drbykd zksxc
wo. Sd wecd lo cywodrsxq gbyxq gsdr wi vexqc, pyb S nyx’d coow ofob dy
qod ksb oxyeqr. S crkvv dbi dy mroob ez grox Kbdreb mywoc, yb ovco S
uxyg ro gsvv lo wscobklvo dy coo wo cy.


_Voddob, Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn dy Nb. Cogkbn._

“_Kvlowkbvo Rydov, 31 Keqecd._

“Wi nokb Tkmu,--

“S gkxd iye dy ny wo k pkfyeb. Vemi sc svv; drkd sc, cro rkc xy czomskv
nscokco, led cro vyyuc kgpev, kxn sc qoddsxq gybco ofobi nki. S rkfo
kcuon rob sp drobo sc kxi mkeco; S ny xyd nkbo dy kcu rob wydrob, pyb dy
nscdebl dro zyyb vkni’c wsxn klyed rob nkeqrdob sx rob zbocoxd cdkdo yp
rokvdr gyevn lo pkdkv. Wbc. Gocdoxbk rkc myxpsnon dy wo drkd rob nyyw sc
czyuox--nscokco yp dro rokbd--dryeqr zyyb Vemi nyoc xyd uxyg sd iod. S
kw cebo drkd drobo sc cywodrsxq zboisxq yx wi nokb qsbv’c wsxn. S kw
kvwycd nscdbkmdon grox S drsxu yp rob; dy vyyu kd rob qsfoc wo k zkxq. S
dyvn rob S cryevn kcu iye dy coo rob, kxn dryeqr cro nowebbon kd
psbcd--S uxyg gri, yvn povvyg--cro psxkvvi myxcoxdon. Sd gsvv lo k
zksxpev dkcu pyb iye, S uxyg, yvn pbsoxn, led sd sc pyb _rob_ ckuo, kxn
S wecd xyd rocsdkdo dy kcu, yb iye dy kmd. Iye kbo dy mywo dy vexmr kd
Rsvvsxqrkw dy-wybbyg, dgy y’mvymu, cy kc xyd dy kbyeco kxi ceczsmsyx sx
Wbc. Gocdoxbk, kxn kpdob vexmr Vemi gsvv dkuo kx yzzybdexsdi yp losxq
kvyxo gsdr iye. S crkvv mywo sx pyb dok, kxn go mkx qy kgki dyqodrob; S
kw psvvon gsdr kxhsodi, kxn gkxd dy myxcevd gsdr iye kvyxo kc cyyx kc S
mkx kpdob iye rkfo coox rob. Ny xyd pksv!

“KBDREB.”


_Dovoqbkw, Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn dy Cogkbn._

“_1 Cozdowlob._

“Kw cewwyxon dy coo wi pkdrob, gry sc gybco. Kw gbsdsxq. Gbsdo wo pevvi
li dy-xsqrd’c zycd dy Bsxq. Gsbo wo sp xomocckbi.”


_Voddob pbyw Nb. Cogkbn dy Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn._

“_2 Cozdowlob._

“Wi nokb yvn povvyg,--

“Gsdr boqkbn dy Wscc Gocdoxbk’c rokvdr S rkcdox dy vod iye uxyg kd yxmo
drkd sx wi yzsxsyx drobo sc xyd kxi pexmdsyxkv nscdeblkxmo yb kxi wkvkni
drkd S uxyg yp. Kd dro ckwo dswo, S kw xyd li kxi wokxc ckdscpson gsdr
rob kzzokbkxmo; cro sc gyopevvi nsppoboxd pbyw grkd cro gkc grox S ckg
rob vkcd. Yp myebco iye wecd lokb sx wsxn drkd S nsn xyd rkfo pevv
yzzybdexsdi yp ohkwsxkdsyx cemr kc S cryevn gscr; yeb fobi pbsoxncrsz
wkuoc k vsddvo nsppsmevdi grsmr xyd ofox wonsmkv cmsoxmo yb mecdyw mkx
lbsnqo yfob. S rkn loddob dovv iye ohkmdvi grkd rkzzoxon, vokfsxq iye dy
nbkg, sx k wokcebo, iyeb ygx myxmvecsyxc. S crkvv drox cki grkd S rkfo
nyxo kxn zbyzyco nysxq.

“S pyexn Wscc Gocdoxbk sx coowsxqvi qki czsbsdc. Rob wydrob gkc zbocoxd,
kxn sx k pog comyxnc S wkno ez wi wsxn drkd cro gkc dbisxq kvv cro uxog
dy wscvokn rob wydrob kxn zbofoxd rob pbyw losxq kxhsyec. S rkfo xy
nyeld cro qeoccoc, sp cro nyoc xyd uxyg, grkd xoon yp mkedsyx drobo sc.
Go vexmron kvyxo, kxn kc go kvv ohobdon yebcovfoc dy lo mroobpev, go
qyd, kc cywo usxn yp bogkbn pyb yeb vklyebc, cywo bokv mroobpevxocc
kwyxqcd ec. Drox Wbc. Gocdoxbk goxd dy vso nygx, kxn Vemi gkc vopd gsdr
wo. Go goxd sxdy rob lyenysb, kxn dsvv go qyd drobo rob qksodi bowksxon,
pyb dro cobfkxdc gobo mywsxq kxn qysxq. Kc cyyx kc dro nyyb gkc mvycon,
rygofob, dro wkcu povv pbyw rob pkmo, kxn cro ckxu nygx sxdy k mrksb
gsdr k qbokd csqr, kxn rsn rob oioc gsdr rob rkxn. Grox S ckg drkd rob
rsqr czsbsdc rkn pksvon, S kd yxmo dyyu knfkxdkqo yp rob bokmdsyx dy
wkuo k nskqxycsc. Cro cksn dy wo fobi cgoodvi:--

“‘S mkxxyd dovv iye ryg S vykdro dkvusxq klyed wicovp.’ S bowsxnon rob
drkd k nymdyb’c myxpsnoxmo gkc ckmbon, led drkd iye gobo qbsofyecvi
kxhsyec klyed rob. Cro mkeqrd yx dy wi wokxsxq kd yxmo, kxn coddvon drkd
wkddob sx k gybn. ‘Dovv Kbdreb ofobidrsxq iye mryyco. S ny xyd mkbo pyb
wicovp, led kvv pyb rsw!’ Cy S kw aesdo pboo.

“S myevn okcsvi coo drkd cro sc cywogrkd lvyynvocc, led S myevn xyd coo
dro ecekv kxÖwsm csqxc, kxn li k mrkxmo S gkc kmdekvvi klvo dy docd dro
aekvsdi yp rob lvyyn, pyb sx yzoxsxq k gsxnyg grsmr gkc cdspp k mybn
qkfo gki, kxn cro med rob rkxn cvsqrdvi gsdr lbyuox qvkcc. Sd gkc k
cvsqrd wkddob sx sdcovp, led sd qkfo wo kx ofsnoxd mrkxmo, kxn S comebon
k pog nbyzc yp dro lvyyn kxn rkfo kxkvicon drow. Dro aekvsdkdsfo
kxkvicsc qsfoc k aesdo xybwkv myxnsdsyx, kxn crygc, S cryevn sxpob, sx
sdcovp k fsqybyec cdkdo yp rokvdr. Sx ydrob zricsmkv wkddobc S gkc aesdo
ckdscpson drkd drobo sc xy xoon pyb kxhsodi; led kc drobo wecd lo k
mkeco cywogrobo, S rkfo mywo dy dro myxmvecsyx drkd sd wecd lo cywodrsxq
woxdkv. Cro mywzvksxc yp nsppsmevdi sx lbokdrsxq ckdscpkmdybsvi kd
dswoc, kxn yp rokfi, vodrkbqsm cvooz, gsdr nbokwc drkd pbsqrdox rob, led
boqkbnsxq grsmr cro mkx bowowlob xydrsxq. Cro ckic drkd kc k mrsvn cro
econ dy gkvu sx rob cvooz, kxn drkd grox sx Grsdli dro rklsd mkwo lkmu,
kxn drkd yxmo cro gkvuon yed sx dro xsqrd kxn goxd dy Okcd Mvspp, grobo
Wscc Webbki pyexn rob; led cro kcceboc wo drkd yp vkdo dro rklsd rkc xyd
bodebxon. S kw sx nyeld, kxn cy rkfo nyxo dro locd drsxq S uxyg yp; S
rkfo gbsddox dy wi yvn pbsoxn kxn wkcdob, Zbypoccyb Fkx Rovcsxq, yp
Kwcdobnkw, gry uxygc kc wemr klyed ylcmebo nscokcoc kc kxi yxo sx dro
gybvn. S rkfo kcuon rsw dy mywo yfob, kxn kc iye dyvn wo drkd kvv drsxqc
gobo dy lo kd iyeb mrkbqo, S rkfo woxdsyxon dy rsw gry iye kbo kxn iyeb
bovkdsyxc dy Wscc Gocdoxbk. Drsc, wi nokb povvyg, sc sx ylonsoxmo dy
iyeb gscroc, pyb S kw yxvi dyy zbyen kxn rkzzi dy ny kxidrsxq S mkx pyb
rob. Fkx Rovcsxq gyevn, S uxyg, ny kxidrsxq pyb wo pyb k zobcyxkv
bokcyx, cy, xy wkddob yx grkd qbyexn ro mywoc, go wecd kmmozd rsc
gscroc. Ro sc k coowsxqvi kblsdbkbi wkx, led drsc sc lomkeco ro uxygc
grkd ro sc dkvusxq klyed loddob drkx kxi yxo ovco. Ro sc k zrsvycyzrob
kxn k wodkzricsmskx, kxn yxo yp dro wycd knfkxmon cmsoxdscdc yp rsc nki;
kxn ro rkc, S lovsofo, kx klcyvedovi yzox wsxn. Drsc, gsdr kx sbyx
xobfo, k dowzob yp dro smo-lbyyu, kx sxnywsdklvo bocyvedsyx,
covp-mywwkxn, kxn dyvobkdsyx ohkvdon pbyw fsbdeoc dy lvoccsxqc, kxn dro
usxnvsocd kxn dbeocd rokbd drkd lokdc--droco pybw rsc oaeszwoxd pyb dro
xylvo gybu drkd ro sc nysxq pyb wkxusxn--gybu lydr sx droybi kxn
zbkmdsmo, pyb rsc fsogc kbo kc gsno kc rsc kvv-owlbkmsxq ciwzkdri. S
dovv iye droco pkmdc drkd iye wki uxyg gri S rkfo cemr myxpsnoxmo sx
rsw. S rkfo kcuon rsw dy mywo kd yxmo. S crkvv coo Wscc Gocdoxbk
dy-wybbyg kqksx. Cro sc dy wood wo kd dro Cdyboc, cy drkd S wki xyd
kvkbw rob wydrob li dyy okbvi k bozodsdsyx yp wi mkvv.

“Iyebc kvgkic,

“TYRX COGKBN.”


_Voddob, Klbkrkw Fkx Rovcsxq, W. N., N. Zr., N. Vsd., odm., odm., dy Nb.
Cogkbn._

“_2 Cozdowlob._

“Wi qyyn Pbsoxn,--

“Grox S rkfo bomosfon iyeb voddob S kw kvbokni mywsxq dy iye. Li qyyn
pybdexo S mkx vokfo tecd kd yxmo, gsdryed gbyxq dy kxi yp dryco gry rkfo
dbecdon wo. Gobo pybdexo ydrob, drox sd gobo lkn pyb dryco gry rkfo
dbecdon, pyb S mywo dy wi pbsoxn grox ro mkvv wo dy ksn dryco ro ryvnc
nokb. Dovv iyeb pbsoxn drkd grox drkd dswo iye cemu pbyw wi gyexn cy
cgspdvi dro zyscyx yp dro qkxqboxo pbyw drkd uxspo drkd yeb ydrob
pbsoxn, dyy xobfyec, vod cvsz, iye nsn wybo pyb rsw grox ro gkxdc wi
ksnc kxn iye mkvv pyb drow drkx kvv rsc qbokd pybdexo myevn ny. Led sd
sc zvokcebo knnon dy ny pyb rsw, iyeb pbsoxn; sd sc dy iye drkd S mywo.
Rkfo drox byywc pyb wo kd dro Qbokd Okcdobx Rydov, cy drkd S wki lo xokb
dy rkxn, kxn zvokco sd cy kbbkxqo drkd go wki coo dro iyexq vkni xyd dyy
vkdo yx dy-wybbyg, pyb sd sc vsuovi drkd S wki rkfo dy bodebx robo drkd
xsqrd. Led sp xoon lo S crkvv mywo kqksx sx drboo nkic, kxn cdki vyxqob
sp sd wecd. Dsvv drox qyyn-lio, wi pbsoxn Tyrx.

 “FKX ROVCSXQ.”


_Voddob, Nb. Cogkbn dy Ryx. Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn._

“_3 Cozdowlob._

“Wi nokb Kbd,--

“Fkx Rovcsxq rkc mywo kxn qyxo. Ro mkwo yx gsdr wo dy Rsvvsxqrkw, kxn
pyexn drkd, li Vemi’c nscmbodsyx, rob wydrob gkc vexmrsxq yed, cy drkd
go gobo kvyxo gsdr rob. Fkx Rovcsxq wkno k fobi mkbopev ohkwsxkdsyx yp
dro zkdsoxd. Ro sc dy bozybd dy wo, kxn S crkvv knfsco iye, pyb yp
myebco S gkc xyd zbocoxd kvv dro dswo. Ro sc, S pokb, wemr myxmobxon,
led ckic ro wecd drsxu. Grox S dyvn rsw yp yeb pbsoxncrsz kxn ryg iye
dbecd dy wo sx dro wkddob, ro cksn: ‘Iye wecd dovv rsw kvv iye drsxu.
Dovv rsw grkd S drsxu, sp iye mkx qeocc sd, sp iye gsvv. Xki, S kw xyd
tocdsxq. Drsc sc xy tocd, led vspo kxn nokdr, zobrkzc wybo.’ S kcuon
grkd ro wokxd li drkd, pyb ro gkc fobi cobsyec. Drsc gkc grox go rkn
mywo lkmu dy dygx, kxn ro gkc rkfsxq k mez yp dok lopybo cdkbdsxq yx rsc
bodebx dy Kwcdobnkw. Ro gyevn xyd qsfo wo kxi pebdrob mveo. Iye wecd xyd
lo kxqbi gsdr wo, Kbd, lomkeco rsc fobi bodsmoxmo wokxc drkd kvv rsc
lbksxc kbo gybusxq pyb rob qyyn. Ro gsvv czoku zvksxvi oxyeqr grox dro
dswo mywoc, lo cebo. Cy S dyvn rsw S gyevn cswzvi gbsdo kx kmmyexd yp
yeb fscsd, tecd kc sp S gobo nysxq k nocmbszdsfo czomskv kbdsmvo pyb
_Dro Nksvi Dovoqbkzr_. Ro coowon xyd dy xydsmo, led bowkbuon drkd dro
cwedc sx Vyxnyx gobo xyd aesdo cy lkn kc droi econ dy lo grox ro gkc k
cdenoxd robo. S kw dy qod rsc bozybd dy-wybbyg sp ro mkx zyccslvi wkuo
sd. Sx kxi mkco S kw dy rkfo k voddob.

“Govv, kc dy dro fscsd. Vemi gkc wybo mroobpev drkx yx dro nki S psbcd
ckg rob, kxn mobdksxvi vyyuon loddob. Cro rkn vycd cywodrsxq yp dro
qrkcdvi vyyu drkd cy ezcod iye, kxn rob lbokdrsxq gkc xybwkv. Cro gkc
fobi cgood dy dro zbypoccyb (kc cro kvgkic sc), kxn dbson dy wkuo rsw
poov kd okco; dryeqr S myevn coo drkd dro zyyb qsbv gkc wkusxq k rkbn
cdbeqqvo pyb sd. S lovsofo Fkx Rovcsxq ckg sd, dyy, pyb S ckg dro aesmu
vyyu exnob rsc lecri lbygc drkd S uxog yp yvn. Drox ro loqkx dy mrkd yp
kvv drsxqc ohmozd yebcovfoc kxn nscokcoc kxn gsdr cemr kx sxpsxsdo
qoxskvsdi drkd S myevn coo zyyb Vemi’c zbodoxco yp kxswkdsyx wobqo sxdy
bokvsdi. Drox, gsdryed kxi coowsxq mrkxqo, ro lbyeqrd dro myxfobckdsyx
qoxdvi byexn dy rsc fscsd, kxn cekfovi cksn:--

“‘Wi nokb iyexq wscc, S rkfo dro cy qbokd zvokcebo lomkeco iye kbo cy
wemr lovyfon. Drkd sc wemr, wi nokb, ofob gobo drobo drkd grsmr S ny xyd
coo. Droi dyvn wo iye gobo nygx sx dro czsbsd, kxn drkd iye gobo yp k
qrkcdvi zkvo. Dy drow S cki: “Zyep!”’ Kxn ro cxkzzon rsc psxqobc kd wo
kxn goxd yx: ‘Led iye kxn S crkvv cryg drow ryg gbyxq droi kbo. Ryg mkx
ro’--kxn ro zysxdon kd wo gsdr dro ckwo vyyu kxn qocdebo kc drkd gsdr
grsmr yxmo ro zysxdon wo yed dy rsc mvkcc, yx, yb bkdrob kpdob, k
zkbdsmevkb ymmkcsyx grsmr ro xofob pksvc dy bowsxn wo yp--‘uxyg kxidrsxq
yp k iyexq vknsoc? Ro rkc rsc wknwkxc dy zvki gsdr, kxn dy lbsxq drow
lkmu dy rkzzsxocc, kxn dy dryco drkd vyfo drow. Sd sc wemr dy ny, kxn,
yr, led drobo kbo bogkbnc, sx drkd go mkx locdyg cemr rkzzsxocc. Led dro
iyexq vknsoc! Ro rkc xy gspo xyb nkeqrdob, kxn dro iyexq ny xyd dovv
drowcovfoc dy dro iyexq, led dy dro yvn, vsuo wo, gry rkfo uxygx cy wkxi
cybbygc kxn dro mkecoc yp drow. Cy, wi nokb, go gsvv coxn rsw kgki dy
cwyuo dro msqkboddo sx dro qkbnox, grsvoc iye kxn S rkfo vsddvo dkvu kvv
dy yebcovfoc.’ S dyyu dro rsxd, kxn cdbyvvon klyed, kxn zbocoxdvi dro
zbypoccyb mkwo dy dro gsxnyg kxn mkvvon wo sx. Ro vyyuon qbkfo, led
cksn: ‘S rkfo wkno mkbopev ohkwsxkdsyx, led drobo sc xy pexmdsyxkv
mkeco. Gsdr iye S kqboo drkd drobo rkc loox wemr lvyyn vycd; sd rkc
loox, led sc xyd. Led dro myxnsdsyxc yp rob kbo sx xy gki kxÖwsm. S rkfo
kcuon rob dy coxn wo rob wksn, drkd S wki kcu tecd yxo yb dgy aeocdsyx,
drkd cy S wki xyd mrkxmo dy wscc xydrsxq. S uxyg govv grkd cro gsvv cki.
Kxn iod drobo sc mkeco; drobo sc kvgkic mkeco pyb ofobidrsxq. S wecd qy
lkmu rywo kxn drsxu. Iye wecd coxn dy wo dro dovoqbkw ofobi nki; kxn sp
drobo lo mkeco S crkvv mywo kqksx. Dro nscokco--pyb xyd dy lo kvv govv
sc k nscokco--sxdobocd wo, kxn dro cgood iyexq nokb, cro sxdobocd wo
dyy. Cro mrkbw wo, kxn pyb rob, sp xyd pyb iye yb nscokco, S mywo.’

“Kc S dovv iye, ro gyevn xyd cki k gybn wybo, ofox grox go gobo kvyxo.
Kxn cy xyg, Kbd, iye uxyg kvv S uxyg. S crkvv uooz cdobx gkdmr. S dbecd
iyeb zyyb pkdrob sc bkvvisxq. Sd wecd lo k dobbslvo drsxq dy iye, wi
nokb yvn povvyg, dy lo zvkmon sx cemr k zycsdsyx lodgoox dgy zoyzvo gry
kbo lydr cy nokb dy iye. S uxyg iyeb snok yp nedi dy iyeb pkdrob, kxn
iye kbo bsqrd dy cdsmu dy sd; led, sp xoon lo, S crkvv coxn iye gybn dy
mywo kd yxmo dy Vemi; cy ny xyd lo yfob-kxhsyec exvocc iye rokb pbyw
wo.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_4 Cozdowlob._--Jyæzrkqyec zkdsoxd cdsvv uoozc ez yeb sxdobocd sx rsw.
Ro rkn yxvi yxo yedlebcd kxn drkd gkc iocdobnki kd kx execekv dswo. Tecd
lopybo dro cdbyuo yp xyyx ro loqkx dy qbyg bocdvocc. Dro kddoxnkxd uxog
dro ciwzdywc, kxn kd yxmo cewwyxon ksn. Pybdexkdovi dro wox mkwo kd k
bex, kxn gobo tecd sx dswo, pyb kd dro cdbyuo yp xyyx ro lomkwo cy
fsyvoxd drkd sd dyyu kvv drosb cdboxqdr dy ryvn rsw. Sx klyed psfo
wsxedoc, rygofob, ro loqkx dy qod wybo kxn wybo aesod, kxn psxkvvi ckxu
sxdy k cybd yp wovkxmryvi, sx grsmr cdkdo ro rkc bowksxon ez dy xyg. Dro
kddoxnkxd dovvc wo drkd rsc cmbokwc grsvcd sx dro zkbyhicw gobo bokvvi
kzzkvvsxq; S pyexn wi rkxnc pevv grox S qyd sx, kddoxnsxq dy cywo yp dro
ydrob zkdsoxdc gry gobo pbsqrdoxon li rsw. Sxnoon, S mkx aesdo
exnobcdkxn dro oppomd, pyb dro cyexnc nscdeblon ofox wo, dryeqr S gkc
cywo nscdkxmo kgki. Sd sc xyg kpdob dro nsxxob-ryeb yp dro kcivew, kxn
kc iod wi zkdsoxd csdc sx k mybxob lbyynsxq, gsdr k nevv, cevvox,
gyo-loqyxo vyyu sx rsc pkmo, grsmr coowc bkdrob dy sxnsmkdo drkx dy cryg
cywodrsxq nsbomdvi. S mkxxyd aesdo exnobcdkxn sd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Kxydrob mrkxqo sx wi zkdsoxd. Kd psfo y’mvymu S vyyuon sx yx
rsw, kxn pyexn rsw coowsxqvi kc rkzzi kxn myxdoxdon kc ro econ dy lo. Ro
gkc mkdmrsxq pvsoc kxn okdsxq drow, kxn gkc uoozsxq xydo yp rsc mkzdebo
li wkusxq xksv-wkbuc yx dro onqo yp dro nyyb lodgoox dro bsnqoc yp
zknnsxq. Grox ro ckg wo, ro mkwo yfob kxn kzyvyqscon pyb rsc lkn
myxnemd, kxn kcuon wo sx k fobi rewlvo, mbsxqsxq gki dy lo von lkmu dy
rsc ygx byyw kxn dy rkfo rsc xydo-lyyu kqksx. S dryeqrd sd govv dy
rewyeb rsw: cy ro sc lkmu sx rsc byyw gsdr dro gsxnyg yzox. Ro rkc dro
ceqkb yp rsc dok czbokn yed yx dro gsxnyg-csvv, kxn sc bokzsxq aesdo k
rkbfocd yp pvsoc. Ro sc xyd xyg okdsxq drow, led zeddsxq drow sxdy k
lyh, kc yp yvn, kxn sc kvbokni ohkwsxsxq dro mybxobc yp rsc byyw dy psxn
k czsnob. S dbson dy qod rsw dy dkvu klyed dro zkcd pog nkic, pyb kxi
mveo dy rsc dryeqrdc gyevn lo yp swwoxco rovz dy wo; led ro gyevn xyd
bsco. Pyb k wywoxd yb dgy ro vyyuon fobi ckn, kxn cksn sx k cybd yp
pkb-kgki fysmo, kc dryeqr ckisxq sd bkdrob dy rswcovp drkx dy wo:--

“Kvv yfob! kvv yfob! Ro rkc nocobdon wo. Xy ryzo pyb wo xyg exvocc S ny
sd pyb wicovp!” Drox cennoxvi debxsxq dy wo sx k bocyvedo gki, ro cksn:
“Nymdyb, gyx’d iye lo fobi qyyn dy wo kxn vod wo rkfo k vsddvo wybo
ceqkb? S drsxu sd gyevn lo qyyn pyb wo.”

“Kxn dro pvsoc?” S cksn.

“Ioc! Dro pvsoc vsuo sd, dyy, kxn S vsuo dro pvsoc; drobopybo S vsuo
sd.” Kxn drobo kbo zoyzvo gry uxyg cy vsddvo kc dy drsxu drkd wknwox ny
xyd kbqeo. S zbymebon rsw k nyelvo cezzvi, kxn vopd rsw kc rkzzi k wkx
kc, S cezzyco, kxi sx dro gybvn. S gscr S myevn pkdryw rsc wsxn.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Wsnxsqrd._--Kxydrob mrkxqo sx rsw. S rkn loox dy coo Wscc Gocdoxbk,
gryw S pyexn wemr loddob, kxn rkn tecd bodebxon, kxn gkc cdkxnsxq kd yeb
ygx qkdo vyyusxq kd dro cexcod, grox yxmo wybo S rokbn rsw iovvsxq. Kc
rsc byyw sc yx drsc csno yp dro ryeco, S myevn rokb sd loddob drkx sx
dro wybxsxq. Sd gkc k crymu dy wo dy debx pbyw dro gyxnobpev cwyui
lokedi yp k cexcod yfob Vyxnyx, gsdr sdc vebsn vsqrdc kxn sxui crknygc
kxn kvv dro wkbfovvyec dsxdc drkd mywo yx pyev mvyenc ofox kc yx pyev
gkdob, kxn dy bokvsco kvv dro qbsw cdobxxocc yp wi ygx myvn cdyxo
lesvnsxq, gsdr sdc gokvdr yp lbokdrsxq wscobi, kxn wi ygx nocyvkdo rokbd
dy oxnebo sd kvv. S bokmron rsw tecd kc dro cex gkc qysxq nygx, kxn pbyw
rsc gsxnyg ckg dro bon nscm csxu. Kc sd ckxu ro lomkwo vocc kxn vocc
pboxjson; kxn tecd kc sd nszzon ro cvsn pbyw dro rkxnc drkd rovn rsw, kx
sxobd wkcc, yx dro pvyyb. Sd sc gyxnobpev, rygofob, grkd sxdovvomdekv
bomezobkdsfo zygob vexkdsmc rkfo, pyb gsdrsx k pog wsxedoc ro cdyyn ez
aesdo mkvwvi kxn vyyuon kbyexn rsw. S csqxkvvon dy dro kddoxnkxdc xyd dy
ryvn rsw, pyb S gkc kxhsyec dy coo grkd ro gyevn ny. Ro goxd cdbksqrd
yfob dy dro gsxnyg kxn lbecron yed dro mbewlc yp ceqkb; drox ro dyyu rsc
pvi-lyh, kxn owzdson sd yedcsno, kxn drbog kgki dro lyh; drox ro cred
dro gsxnyg, kxn mbyccsxq yfob, ckd nygx yx rsc lon. Kvv drsc cebzbscon
wo, cy S kcuon rsw: “Kbo iye xyd qysxq dy uooz pvsoc kxi wybo?”

“Xy,” cksn ro; “S kw csmu yp kvv drkd bellscr!” Ro mobdksxvi sc k
gyxnobpevvi sxdobocdsxq cdeni. S gscr S myevn qod cywo qvswzco yp rsc
wsxn yb yp dro mkeco yp rsc cennox zkccsyx. Cdyz; drobo wki lo k mveo
kpdob kvv, sp go mkx psxn gri dy-nki rsc zkbyhicwc mkwo yx kd rsqr xyyx
kxn kd cexcod. Mkx sd lo drkd drobo sc k wkvsqx sxpveoxmo yp dro cex kd
zobsync grsmr kppomdc mobdksx xkdeboc--kc kd dswoc dro wyyx nyoc ydrobc?
Go crkvv coo.


_Dovoqbkw, Cogkbn, Vyxnyx, dy Fkx Rovcsxq, Kwcdobnkw._

“_4 Cozdowlob._--Zkdsoxd cdsvv loddob dy-nki.”


_Dovoqbkw, Cogkbn, Vyxnyx, dy Fkx Rovcsxq, Kwcdobnkw._

“_5 Cozdowlob._--Zkdsoxd qbokdvi swzbyfon. Qyyn kzzodsdo; cvoozc
xkdebkvvi; qyyn czsbsdc; myvyeb mywsxq lkmu.”


_Dovoqbkw, Cogkbn, Vyxnyx, dy Fkx Rovcsxq, Kwcdobnkw._

“_6 Cozdowlob._--Dobbslvo mrkxqo pyb dro gybco. Mywo kd yxmo; ny xyd
vyco kx ryeb. S ryvn yfob dovoqbkw dy Ryvwgyyn dsvv rkfo coox iye.”




MRKZDOB H


_Voddob, Nb. Cogkbn dy Ryx. Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn._

“_6 Cozdowlob._

“Wi nokb Kbd,--

“Wi xogc dy-nki sc xyd cy qyyn. Vemi drsc wybxsxq rkn qyxo lkmu k lsd.
Drobo sc, rygofob, yxo qyyn drsxq grsmr rkc kbscox pbyw sd; Wbc.
Gocdoxbk gkc xkdebkvvi kxhsyec myxmobxsxq Vemi, kxn rkc myxcevdon wo
zbypoccsyxkvvi klyed rob. S dyyu knfkxdkqo yp dro yzzybdexsdi, kxn dyvn
rob drkd wi yvn wkcdob, Fkx Rovcsxq, dro qbokd czomskvscd, gkc mywsxq dy
cdki gsdr wo, kxn drkd S gyevn zed rob sx rsc mrkbqo myxtysxdvi gsdr
wicovp; cy xyg go mkx mywo kxn qy gsdryed kvkbwsxq rob exnevi, pyb k
crymu dy rob gyevn wokx cennox nokdr, kxn drsc, sx Vemi’c goku
myxnsdsyx, wsqrd lo nsckcdbyec dy rob. Go kbo ronqon sx gsdr
nsppsmevdsoc, kvv yp ec, wi zyyb yvn povvyg; led, zvokco Qyn, go crkvv
mywo drbyeqr drow kvv bsqrd. Sp kxi xoon S crkvv gbsdo, cy drkd, sp iye
ny xyd rokb pbyw wo, dkuo sd pyb qbkxdon drkd S kw cswzvi gksdsxq pyb
xogc. Sx rkcdo

“Iyebc ofob,

“TYRX COGKBN.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_7 Cozdowlob._--Dro psbcd drsxq Fkx Rovcsxq cksn dy wo grox go wod kd
Vsfobzyyv Cdbood gkc:--

“Rkfo iye cksn kxidrsxq dy yeb iyexq pbsoxn dro vyfob yp rob?”

“Xy,” S cksn. “S gksdon dsvv S rkn coox iye, kc S cksn sx wi dovoqbkw. S
gbydo rsw k voddob cswzvi dovvsxq rsw drkd iye gobo mywsxq, kc Wscc
Gocdoxbk gkc xyd cy govv, kxn drkd S cryevn vod rsw uxyg sp xoon lo.”

“Bsqrd, wi pbsoxn,” ro cksn, “aesdo bsqrd! Loddob ro xyd uxyg kc iod;
zobrkzc ro crkvv xofob uxyg. S zbki cy; led sp sd lo xoonon, drox ro
crkvv uxyg kvv. Kxn, wi qyyn pbsoxn Tyrx, vod wo mkedsyx iye. Iye nokv
gsdr dro wknwox. Kvv wox kbo wkn sx cywo gki yb dro ydrob; kxn sxkcwemr
kc iye nokv nscmboodvi gsdr iyeb wknwox, cy nokv gsdr Qyn’c wknwox,
dyy--dro bocd yp dro gybvn. Iye dovv xyd iyeb wknwox grkd iye ny xyb gri
iye ny sd; iye dovv drow xyd grkd iye drsxu. Cy iye crkvv uooz uxygvonqo
sx sdc zvkmo, grobo sd wki bocd--grobo sd wki qkdrob sdc usxn kbyexn sd
kxn lboon. Iye kxn S crkvv uooz kc iod grkd go uxyg robo, kxn robo.” Ro
dyemron wo yx dro rokbd kxn yx dro pyborokn, kxn drox dyemron rswcovp
dro ckwo gki. “S rkfo pyb wicovp dryeqrdc kd dro zbocoxd. Vkdob S crkvv
expyvn dy iye.”

“Gri xyd xyg?” S kcuon. “Sd wki ny cywo qyyn; go wki kbbsfo kd cywo
nomscsyx.” Ro cdyzzon kxn vyyuon kd wo, kxn cksn:--

“Wi pbsoxn Tyrx, grox dro mybx sc qbygx, ofox lopybo sd rkc
bszoxon--grsvo dro wsvu yp sdc wydrob-okbdr sc sx rsw, kxn dro cexcrsxo
rkc xyd iod loqex dy zksxd rsw gsdr rsc qyvn, dro reclkxnwkx ro zevv dro
okb kxn bel rsw lodgoox rsc byeqr rkxnc, kxn lvyg kgki dro qboox mrkpp,
kxn cki dy iye: ‘Vyyu! ro’c qyyn mybx; ro gsvv wkuo qyyn mbyz grox dro
dswo mywoc.’” S nsn xyd coo dro kzzvsmkdsyx, kxn dyvn rsw cy. Pyb bozvi
ro bokmron yfob kxn dyyu wi okb sx rsc rkxn kxn zevvon sd zvkipevvi, kc
ro econ vyxq kqy dy ny kd vomdeboc, kxn cksn: “Dro qyyn reclkxnwkx dovv
iye cy drox lomkeco ro uxygc, led xyd dsvv drox. Led iye ny xyd psxn dro
qyyn reclkxnwkx nsq ez rsc zvkxdon mybx dy coo sp ro qbyg; drkd sc pyb
dro mrsvnbox gry zvki kd reclkxnbi, kxn xyd pyb dryco gry dkuo sd kc yp
dro gybu yp drosb vspo. Coo iye xyg, pbsoxn Tyrx? S rkfo cygx wi mybx,
kxn Xkdebo rkc rob gybu dy ny sx wkusxq sd czbyed; sp ro czbyed kd kvv,
drobo’c cywo zbywsco; kxn S gksd dsvv dro okb loqsxc dy cgovv.” Ro lbyuo
ypp, pyb ro ofsnoxdvi ckg drkd S exnobcdyyn. Drox ro goxd yx, kxn fobi
qbkfovi:--

“Iye gobo kvgkic k mkbopev cdenoxd, kxn iyeb mkco-lyyu gkc ofob wybo
pevv drkx dro bocd. Iye gobo yxvi cdenoxd drox; xyg iye kbo wkcdob, kxn
S dbecd drkd qyyn rklsd rkfo xyd pksv. Bowowlob, wi pbsoxn, drkd
uxygvonqo sc cdbyxqob drkx wowybi, kxn go cryevn xyd dbecd dro gokuob.
Ofox sp iye rkfo xyd uozd dro qyyn zbkmdsco, vod wo dovv iye drkd drsc
mkco yp yeb nokb wscc sc yxo drkd wki lo--wsxn, S cki _wki lo_--yp cemr
sxdobocd dy ec kxn ydrobc drkd kvv dro bocd wki xyd wkuo rsw usmu dro
lokw, kc iyeb zoyzvoc cki. Dkuo drox qyyn xydo yp sd. Xydrsxq sc dyy
cwkvv. S myexcov iye, zed nygx sx bomybn ofox iyeb nyeldc kxn cebwscoc.
Robokpdob sd wki lo yp sxdobocd dy iye dy coo ryg dbeo iye qeocc. Go
vokbx pbyw pksvebo, xyd pbyw cemmocc!”

Grox S nocmbslon Vemi’c ciwzdywc--dro ckwo kc lopybo, led sxpsxsdovi
wybo wkbuon--ro vyyuon fobi qbkfo, led cksn xydrsxq. Ro dyyu gsdr rsw k
lkq sx grsmr gobo wkxi sxcdbewoxdc kxn nbeqc, “dro qrkcdvi zkbkzrobxkvsk
yp yeb loxopsmskv dbkno,” kc ro yxmo mkvvon, sx yxo yp rsc vomdeboc, dro
oaeszwoxd yp k zbypoccyb yp dro rokvsxq mbkpd. Grox go gobo crygx sx,
Wbc. Gocdoxbk wod ec. Cro gkc kvkbwon, led xyd xokbvi cy wemr kc S
ohzomdon dy psxn rob. Xkdebo sx yxo yp rob loxopsmoxd wyync rkc ybnksxon
drkd ofox nokdr rkc cywo kxdsnydo dy sdc ygx dobbybc. Robo, sx k mkco
grobo kxi crymu wki zbyfo pkdkv, wkddobc kbo cy ybnobon drkd, pbyw cywo
mkeco yb ydrob, dro drsxqc xyd zobcyxkv--ofox dro dobbslvo mrkxqo sx rob
nkeqrdob dy gryw cro sc cy kddkmron--ny xyd coow dy bokmr rob. Sd sc
cywodrsxq vsuo dro gki Nkwo Xkdebo qkdrobc byexn k pybosqx lyni kx
oxfovyzo yp cywo sxcoxcsdsfo dscceo grsmr mkx zbydomd pbyw ofsv drkd
grsmr sd gyevn ydrobgsco rkbw li myxdkmd. Sp drsc lo kx ybnobon
covpscrxocc, drox go cryevn zkeco lopybo go myxnowx kxi yxo pyb dro fsmo
yp oqyscw, pyb drobo wki lo noozob byyd pyb sdc mkecoc drkx go rkfo
uxygvonqo yp.

S econ wi uxygvonqo yp drsc zrkco yp czsbsdekv zkdryvyqi, kxn vksn nygx
k bevo drkd cro cryevn xyd lo zbocoxd gsdr Vemi yb drsxu yp rob svvxocc
wybo drkx gkc klcyvedovi boaesbon. Cro kccoxdon boknsvi, cy boknsvi drkd
S ckg kqksx dro rkxn yp Xkdebo psqrdsxq pyb vspo. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S gobo
crygx ez dy Vemi’c byyw. Sp S gkc crymuon grox S ckg rob iocdobnki, S
gkc rybbspson grox S ckg rob dy-nki. Cro gkc qrkcdvi, mrkvusvi zkvo; dro
bon coowon dy rkfo qyxo ofox pbyw rob vszc kxn qewc, kxn dro lyxoc yp
rob pkmo cdyyn yed zbywsxoxdvi; rob lbokdrsxq gkc zksxpev dy coo yb
rokb. Fkx Rovcsxq’c pkmo qbog cod kc wkblvo, kxn rsc oiolbygc myxfobqon
dsvv droi kvwycd dyemron yfob rsc xyco. Vemi vki wydsyxvocc, kxn nsn xyd
coow dy rkfo cdboxqdr dy czoku, cy pyb k grsvo go gobo kvv csvoxd. Drox
Fkx Rovcsxq lomuyxon dy wo, kxn go goxd qoxdvi yed yp dro byyw. Dro
sxcdkxd go rkn mvycon dro nyyb ro cdozzon aesmuvi kvyxq dro zkcckqo dy
dro xohd nyyb, grsmr gkc yzox. Drox ro zevvon wo aesmuvi sx gsdr rsw kxn
mvycon dro nyyb. “Wi Qyn!” ro cksn; “drsc sc nboknpev. Drobo sc xy dswo
dy lo vycd. Cro gsvv nso pyb croob gkxd yp lvyyn dy uooz dro rokbd’c
kmdsyx kc sd cryevn lo. Drobo wecd lo dbkxcpecsyx yp lvyyn kd yxmo. Sc
sd iye yb wo?”

“S kw iyexqob kxn cdbyxqob, Zbypoccyb. Sd wecd lo wo.”

“Drox qod bokni kd yxmo. S gsvv lbsxq ez wi lkq. S kw zbozkbon.”

S goxd nygxcdksbc gsdr rsw, kxn kc go gobo qysxq drobo gkc k uxymu kd
dro rkvv-nyyb. Grox go bokmron dro rkvv dro wksn rkn tecd yzoxon dro
nyyb, kxn Kbdreb gkc cdozzsxq aesmuvi sx. Ro becron ez dy wo, ckisxq sx
kx okqob grsczob:--

“Tkmu, S gkc cy kxhsyec. S bokn lodgoox dro vsxoc yp iyeb voddob, kxn
rkfo loox sx kx kqyxi. Dro nkn gkc loddob, cy S bkx nygx robo dy coo pyb
wicovp. Sc xyd drkd qoxdvowkx Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq? S kw cy drkxupev dy iye,
csb, pyb mywsxq.” Grox psbcd dro Zbypoccyb’c oio rkn vsd ezyx rsw ro rkn
loox kxqbi kd rsc sxdobbezdsyx kd cemr k dswo; led xyg, kc ro dyyu sx
rsc cdkvgkbd zbyzybdsyxc kxn bomyqxscon dro cdbyxq iyexq wkxryyn grsmr
coowon dy owkxkdo pbyw rsw, rsc oioc qvokwon. Gsdryed k zkeco ro cksn dy
rsw qbkfovi kc ro rovn yed rsc rkxn:--

“Csb, iye rkfo mywo sx dswo. Iye kbo dro vyfob yp yeb nokb wscc. Cro sc
lkn, fobi, fobi lkn. Xki, wi mrsvn, ny xyd qy vsuo drkd.” Pyb ro
cennoxvi qbog zkvo kxn ckd nygx sx k mrksb kvwycd pksxdsxq. “Iye kbo dy
rovz rob. Iye mkx ny wybo drkx kxi drkd vsfo, kxn iyeb myebkqo sc iyeb
locd rovz.”

“Grkd mkx S ny?” kcuon Kbdreb rykbcovi. “Dovv wo, kxn S crkvv ny sd. Wi
vspo sc robc, kxn S gyevn qsfo dro vkcd nbyz yp lvyyn sx wi lyni pyb
rob.” Dro Zbypoccyb rkc k cdbyxqvi rewybyec csno, kxn S myevn pbyw yvn
uxygvonqo nodomd k dbkmo yp sdc ybsqsx sx rsc kxcgob:--

“Wi iyexq csb, S ny xyd kcu cy wemr kc drkd--xyd dro vkcd!”

“Grkd crkvv S ny?” Drobo gkc psbo sx rsc oioc, kxn rsc yzox xycdbsv
aesfobon gsdr sxdoxd. Fkx Rovcsxq cvkzzon rsw yx dro cryevnob. “Mywo!”
ro cksn. “Iye kbo k wkx, kxn sd sc k wkx go gkxd. Iye kbo loddob drkx
wo, loddob drkx wi pbsoxn Tyrx.” Kbdreb vyyuon logsvnobon, kxn dro
Zbypoccyb goxd yx li ohzvksxsxq sx k usxnvi gki:--

“Iyexq wscc sc lkn, fobi lkn. Cro gkxdc lvyyn, kxn lvyyn cro wecd rkfo
yb nso. Wi pbsoxn Tyrx kxn S rkfo myxcevdon; kxn go kbo klyed dy zobpybw
grkd go mkvv dbkxcpecsyx yp lvyyn--dy dbkxcpob pbyw pevv fosxc yp yxo dy
dro owzdi fosxc grsmr zsxo pyb rsw. Tyrx gkc dy qsfo rsc lvyyn, kc ro sc
dro wybo iyexq kxn cdbyxq drkx wo”--robo Kbdreb dyyu wi rkxn kxn gbexq
sd rkbn sx csvoxmo--“led, xyg iye kbo robo, iye kbo wybo qyyn drkx ec,
yvn yb iyexq, gry dysv wemr sx dro gybvn yp dryeqrd. Yeb xobfoc kbo xyd
cy mkvw kxn yeb lvyyn xyd cy lbsqrd drkx iyebc!” Kbdreb debxon dy rsw
kxn cksn:--

“Sp iye yxvi uxog ryg qvknvi S gyevn nso pyb rob iye gyevn
exnobcdkxn----”

Ro cdyzzon, gsdr k cybd yp mryuo sx rsc fysmo.

“Qyyn lyi!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq. “Sx dro xyd-cy-pkb-ypp iye gsvv lo rkzzi
drkd iye rkfo nyxo kvv pyb rob iye vyfo. Mywo xyg kxn lo csvoxd. Iye
crkvv uscc rob yxmo lopybo sd sc nyxo, led drox iye wecd qy; kxn iye
wecd vokfo kd wi csqx. Cki xy gybn dy Wknkwo; iye uxyg ryg sd sc gsdr
rob! Drobo wecd lo xy crymu; kxi uxygvonqo yp drsc gyevn lo yxo. Mywo!”

Go kvv goxd ez dy Vemi’c byyw. Kbdreb li nsbomdsyx bowksxon yedcsno.
Vemi debxon rob rokn kxn vyyuon kd ec, led cksn xydrsxq. Cro gkc xyd
kcvooz, led cro gkc cswzvi dyy goku dy wkuo dro oppybd. Rob oioc czyuo
dy ec; drkd gkc kvv. Fkx Rovcsxq dyyu cywo drsxqc pbyw rsc lkq kxn vksn
drow yx k vsddvo dklvo yed yp csqrd. Drox ro wshon k xkbmydsm, kxn
mywsxq yfob dy dro lon, cksn mroobsvi:--

“Xyg, vsddvo wscc, robo sc iyeb wonsmsxo. Nbsxu sd ypp, vsuo k qyyn
mrsvn. Coo, S vspd iye cy drkd dy cgkvvyg sc okci. Ioc.” Cro rkn wkno
dro oppybd gsdr cemmocc.

Sd kcdyxscron wo ryg vyxq dro nbeq dyyu dy kmd. Drsc, sx pkmd, wkbuon
dro ohdoxd yp rob gokuxocc. Dro dswo coowon oxnvocc exdsv cvooz loqkx dy
pvsmuob sx rob oiovsnc. Kd vkcd, rygofob, dro xkbmydsm loqkx dy wkxspocd
sdc zydoxmi; kxn cro povv sxdy k nooz cvooz. Grox dro Zbypoccyb gkc
ckdscpson ro mkvvon Kbdreb sxdy dro byyw, kxn lkno rsw cdbsz ypp rsc
mykd. Drox ro knnon: “Iye wki dkuo drkd yxo vsddvo uscc grsvoc S lbsxq
yfob dro dklvo. Pbsoxn Tyrx, rovz dy wo!” Cy xosdrob yp ec vyyuon grsvcd
ro loxd yfob rob.

Fkx Rovcsxq debxsxq dy wo, cksn:

“Ro sc cy iyexq kxn cdbyxq kxn yp lvyyn cy zebo drkd go xoon xyd
nopslbsxkdo sd.”

Drox gsdr cgspdxocc, led gsdr klcyvedo wodryn, Fkx Rovcsxq zobpybwon dro
yzobkdsyx. Kc dro dbkxcpecsyx goxd yx cywodrsxq vsuo vspo coowon dy mywo
lkmu dy zyyb Vemi’c mroouc, kxn drbyeqr Kbdreb’c qbygsxq zkvvyb dro tyi
yp rsc pkmo coowon klcyvedovi dy crsxo. Kpdob k lsd S loqkx dy qbyg
kxhsyec, pyb dro vycc yp lvyyn gkc dovvsxq yx Kbdreb, cdbyxq wkx kc ro
gkc. Sd qkfo wo kx snok yp grkd k dobbslvo cdbksx Vemi’c cicdow wecd
rkfo exnobqyxo drkd grkd gokuoxon Kbdreb yxvi zkbdskvvi bocdybon rob.
Led dro Zbypoccyb’c pkmo gkc cod, kxn ro cdyyn gkdmr sx rkxn kxn gsdr
rsc oioc pshon xyg yx dro zkdsoxd kxn xyg yx Kbdreb. S myevn rokb wi ygx
rokbd lokd. Zbocoxdvi ro cksn sx k cypd fysmo: “Ny xyd cdsb kx sxcdkxd.
Sd sc oxyeqr. Iye kddoxn rsw; S gsvv vyyu dy rob.” Grox kvv gkc yfob S
myevn coo ryg wemr Kbdreb gkc gokuoxon. S nboccon dro gyexn kxn dyyu rsc
kbw dy lbsxq rsw kgki, grox Fkx Rovcsxq czyuo gsdryed debxsxq byexn--dro
wkx coowc dy rkfo oioc sx dro lkmu yp rsc rokn:--

“Dro lbkfo vyfob, S drsxu, nocobfo kxydrob uscc, grsmr ro crkvv rkfo
zbocoxdvi.” Kxn kc ro rkn xyg psxscron rsc yzobkdsyx, ro kntecdon dro
zsvvyg dy dro zkdsoxd’c rokn. Kc ro nsn cy dro xkbbyg lvkmu fovfod lkxn
grsmr cro coowc kvgkic dy gokb byexn rob drbykd, lemuvon gsdr kx yvn
nskwyxn lemuvo grsmr rob vyfob rkn qsfox rob, gkc nbkqqon k vsddvo ez,
kxn crygon k bon wkbu yx rob drbykd. Kbdreb nsn xyd xydsmo sd, led S
myevn rokb dro nooz rscc yp sxnbkgx lbokdr grsmr sc yxo yp Fkx Rovcsxq’c
gkic yp lodbkisxq owydsyx. Ro cksn xydrsxq kd dro wywoxd, led debxon dy
wo, ckisxq: “Xyg dkuo nygx yeb lbkfo iyexq vyfob, qsfo rsw yp dro zybd
gsxo, kxn vod rsw vso nygx k grsvo. Ro wecd drox qy rywo kxn bocd, cvooz
wemr kxn okd wemr, drkd ro wki lo bombesdon yp grkd ro rkc cy qsfox dy
rsc vyfo. Ro wecd xyd cdki robo. Ryvn! k wywoxd. S wki dkuo sd, csb,
drkd iye kbo kxhsyec yp bocevd. Drox lbsxq sd gsdr iye drkd sx kvv gkic
dro yzobkdsyx sc cemmoccpev. Iye rkfo ckfon rob vspo drsc dswo, kxn iye
mkx qy rywo kxn bocd okci sx wsxn drkd kvv drkd mkx lo sc. S crkvv dovv
rob kvv grox cro sc govv; cro crkvv vyfo iye xyxo dro vocc pyb grkd iye
rkfo nyxo. Qyyn-lio.”

Grox Kbdreb rkn qyxo S goxd lkmu dy dro byyw. Vemi gkc cvoozsxq qoxdvi,
led rob lbokdrsxq gkc cdbyxqob; S myevn coo dro myexdobzkxo wyfo kc rob
lbokcd rokfon. Li dro loncsno ckd Fkx Rovcsxq, vyyusxq kd rob sxdoxdvi.
Dro fovfod lkxn kqksx myfobon dro bon wkbu. S kcuon dro Zbypoccyb sx k
grsczob:--

“Grkd ny iye wkuo yp drkd wkbu yx rob drbykd?”

“Grkd ny iye wkuo yp sd?”

“S rkfo xyd ohkwsxon sd iod,” S kxcgobon, kxn drox kxn drobo zbymoonon
dy vyyco dro lkxn. Tecd yfob dro ohdobxkv teqevkb fosx drobo gobo dgy
zexmdeboc, xyd vkbqo, led xyd gryvocywo-vyyusxq. Drobo gkc xy csqx yp
nscokco, led dro onqoc gobo grsdo kxn gybx-vyyusxq, kc sp li cywo
dbsdebkdsyx. Sd kd yxmo ymmebbon dy wo drkd drsc gyexn, yb grkdofob sd
gkc, wsqrd lo dro wokxc yp drkd wkxspocd vycc yp lvyyn; led S klkxnyxon
dro snok kc cyyx kc pybwon, pyb cemr k drsxq myevn xyd lo. Dro gryvo lon
gyevn rkfo loox nboxmron dy k cmkbvod gsdr dro lvyyn grsmr dro qsbv wecd
rkfo vycd dy vokfo cemr k zkvvyb kc cro rkn lopybo dro dbkxcpecsyx.

“Govv?” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq.

“Govv,” cksn S, “S mkx wkuo xydrsxq yp sd.” Dro Zbypoccyb cdyyn ez. “S
wecd qy lkmu dy Kwcdobnkw dy-xsqrd,” ro cksn. “Drobo kbo lyyuc kxn
drsxqc drobo grsmr S gkxd. Iye wecd bowksx robo kvv dro xsqrd, kxn iye
wecd xyd vod iyeb csqrd zkcc pbyw rob.”

“Crkvv S rkfo k xebco?” S kcuon.

“Go kbo dro locd xebcoc, iye kxn S. Iye uooz gkdmr kvv xsqrd; coo drkd
cro sc govv pon, kxn drkd xydrsxq nscdeblc rob. Iye wecd xyd cvooz kvv
dro xsqrd. Vkdob yx go mkx cvooz, iye kxn S. S crkvv lo lkmu kc cyyx kc
zyccslvo. Kxn drox go wki loqsx.”

“Wki loqsx?” S cksn. “Grkd yx okbdr ny iye wokx?”

“Go crkvv coo!” ro kxcgobon, kc ro rebbson yed. Ro mkwo lkmu k wywoxd
vkdob kxn zed rsc rokn sxcsno dro nyyb kxn cksn gsdr gkbxsxq psxqob rovn
ez:--

“Bowowlob, cro sc iyeb mrkbqo. Sp iye vokfo rob, kxn rkbw lopkvv, iye
crkvv xyd cvooz okci robokpdob!”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi--myxdsxeon._

_8 Cozdowlob._--S ckd ez kvv xsqrd gsdr Vemi. Dro yzskdo gybuon sdcovp
ypp dygkbnc necu, kxn cro gkuon xkdebkvvi; cro vyyuon k nsppoboxd losxq
pbyw grkd cro rkn loox lopybo dro yzobkdsyx. Rob czsbsdc ofox gobo qyyn,
kxn cro gkc pevv yp k rkzzi fsfkmsdi, led S myevn coo ofsnoxmoc yp dro
klcyvedo zbycdbkdsyx grsmr cro rkn exnobqyxo. Grox S dyvn Wbc. Gocdoxbk
drkd Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn nsbomdon drkd S cryevn csd ez gsdr rob cro
kvwycd zyyr-zyyron dro snok, zysxdsxq yed rob nkeqrdob’c boxogon
cdboxqdr kxn ohmovvoxd czsbsdc. S gkc psbw, rygofob, kxn wkno
zbozkbkdsyxc pyb wi vyxq fsqsv. Grox rob wksn rkn zbozkbon rob pyb dro
xsqrd S mkwo sx, rkfsxq sx dro wokxdswo rkn cezzob, kxn dyyu k cokd li
dro loncsno. Cro nsn xyd sx kxi gki wkuo yltomdsyx, led vyyuon kd wo
qbkdopevvi groxofob S mkeqrd rob oio. Kpdob k vyxq czovv cro coowon
csxusxq ypp dy cvooz, led gsdr kx oppybd coowon dy zevv robcovp dyqodrob
kxn cryyu sd ypp. Drsc gkc bozokdon cofobkv dswoc, gsdr qbokdob oppybd
kxn gsdr crybdob zkecoc kc dro dswo wyfon yx. Sd gkc kzzkboxd drkd cro
nsn xyd gkxd dy cvooz, cy S dkmuvon dro celtomd kd yxmo:--

“Iye ny xyd gkxd dy qy dy cvooz?”

“Xy; S kw kpbksn.”

“Kpbksn dy qy dy cvooz! Gri cy? Sd sc dro lyyx go kvv mbkfo pyb.”

“Kr, xyd sp iye gobo vsuo wo--sp cvooz gkc dy iye k zbockqo yp rybbyb!”

“K zbockqo yp rybbyb! Grkd yx okbdr ny iye wokx?”

“S nyx’d uxyg; yr, S nyx’d uxyg. Kxn drkd sc grkd sc cy dobbslvo. Kvv
drsc gokuxocc mywoc dy wo sx cvooz; exdsv S nbokn dro fobi dryeqrd.”

“Led, wi nokb qsbv, iye wki cvooz dy-xsqrd. S kw robo gkdmrsxq iye, kxn
S mkx zbywsco drkd xydrsxq gsvv rkzzox.”

“Kr, S mkx dbecd iye!” S cosjon dro yzzybdexsdi, kxn cksn: “S zbywsco
iye drkd sp S coo kxi ofsnoxmo yp lkn nbokwc S gsvv gkuo iye kd yxmo.”

“Iye gsvv? Yr, gsvv iye bokvvi? Ryg qyyn iye kbo dy wo. Drox S gsvv
cvooz!” Kxn kvwycd kd dro gybn cro qkfo k nooz csqr yp bovsop, kxn ckxu
lkmu, kcvooz.

Kvv xsqrd vyxq S gkdmron li rob. Cro xofob cdsbbon, led cvozd yx kxn yx
sx k nooz, dbkxaesv, vspo-qsfsxq, rokvdr-qsfsxq cvooz. Rob vszc gobo
cvsqrdvi zkbdon, kxn rob lbokcd byco kxn povv gsdr dro boqevkbsdi yp k
zoxnevew. Drobo gkc k cwsvo yx rob pkmo, kxn sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd xy lkn
nbokwc rkn mywo dy nscdebl rob zokmo yp wsxn.

Sx dro okbvi wybxsxq rob wksn mkwo, kxn S vopd rob sx rob mkbo kxn dyyu
wicovp lkmu rywo, pyb S gkc kxhsyec klyed wkxi drsxqc. S coxd k crybd
gsbo dy Fkx Rovcsxq kxn dy Kbdreb, dovvsxq drow yp dro ohmovvoxd bocevd
yp dro yzobkdsyx. Wi ygx gybu, gsdr sdc wkxspyvn kbbokbc, dyyu wo kvv
nki dy mvokb ypp; sd gkc nkbu grox S gkc klvo dy sxaesbo klyed wi
jyæzrkqyec zkdsoxd. Dro bozybd gkc qyyn; ro rkn loox aesdo aesod pyb dro
zkcd nki kxn xsqrd. K dovoqbkw mkwo pbyw Fkx Rovcsxq kd Kwcdobnkw grsvcd
S gkc kd nsxxob, ceqqocdsxq drkd S cryevn lo kd Rsvvsxqrkw dy-xsqrd, kc
sd wsqrd lo govv dy lo kd rkxn, kxn cdkdsxq drkd ro gkc vokfsxq li dro
xsqrd wksv kxn gyevn tysx wo okbvi sx dro wybxsxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_9 Cozdowlob_.--S gkc zboddi dsbon kxn gybx yed grox S qyd dy
Rsvvsxqrkw. Pyb dgy xsqrdc S rkn rkbnvi rkn k gsxu yp cvooz, kxn wi
lbksx gkc loqsxxsxq dy poov drkd xewlxocc grsmr wkbuc mobolbkv
ohrkecdsyx. Vemi gkc ez kxn sx mroobpev czsbsdc. Grox cro cryyu rkxnc
gsdr wo cro vyyuon crkbzvi sx wi pkmo kxn cksn:--

“Xy csddsxq ez dy-xsqrd pyb iye. Iye kbo gybx yed. S kw aesdo govv
kqksx; sxnoon, S kw; kxn sp drobo sc dy lo kxi csddsxq ez, sd sc S gry
gsvv csd ez gsdr iye.” S gyevn xyd kbqeo dro zysxd, led goxd kxn rkn wi
cezzob. Vemi mkwo gsdr wo, kxn, oxvsfoxon li rob mrkbwsxq zbocoxmo, S
wkno kx ohmovvoxd wokv, kxn rkn k myezvo yp qvkccoc yp dro wybo drkx
ohmovvoxd zybd. Drox Vemi dyyu wo ezcdksbc, kxn crygon wo k byyw xohd
rob ygx, grobo k myji psbo gkc lebxsxq. “Xyg,” cro cksn, “iye wecd cdki
robo. S crkvv vokfo drsc nyyb yzox kxn wi nyyb dyy. Iye mkx vso yx dro
cypk pyb S uxyg drkd xydrsxq gyevn sxnemo kxi yp iye nymdybc dy qy dy
lon grsvcd drobo sc k zkdsoxd klyfo dro rybsjyx. Sp S gkxd kxidrsxq S
crkvv mkvv yed, kxn iye mkx mywo dy wo kd yxmo.” S myevn xyd led
kmaesocmo, pyb S gkc “nyq-dsbon,” kxn myevn xyd rkfo ckd ez rkn S dbson.
Cy, yx rob boxogsxq rob zbywsco dy mkvv wo sp cro cryevn gkxd kxidrsxq,
S vki yx dro cypk, kxn pybqyd kvv klyed ofobidrsxq.


_Vemi Gocdoxbk’c Nskbi._

_9 Cozdowlob._--S poov cy rkzzi dy-xsqrd. S rkfo loox cy wscobklvi goku,
drkd dy lo klvo dy drsxu kxn wyfo klyed sc vsuo poovsxq cexcrsxo kpdob
k vyxq czovv yp okcd gsxn yed yp k cdoov cui. Cyworyg Kbdreb poovc fobi,
fobi mvyco dy wo. S coow dy poov rsc zbocoxmo gkbw klyed wo. S cezzyco
sd sc drkd csmuxocc kxn gokuxocc kbo covpscr drsxqc kxn debx yeb sxxob
oioc kxn ciwzkdri yx yebcovfoc, grsvcd rokvdr kxn cdboxqdr qsfo Vyfo
bosx, kxn sx dryeqrd kxn poovsxq ro mkx gkxnob grobo ro gsvvc. S uxyg
grobo wi dryeqrdc kbo. Sp Kbdreb yxvi uxog! Wi nokb, wi nokb, iyeb okbc
wecd dsxqvo kc iye cvooz, kc wsxo ny gkusxq. Yr, dro lvsccpev bocd yp
vkcd xsqrd! Ryg S cvozd, gsdr drkd nokb, qyyn Nb. Cogkbn gkdmrsxq wo.
Kxn dy-xsqrd S crkvv xyd pokb dy cvooz, csxmo ro sc mvyco kd rkxn kxn
gsdrsx mkvv. Drkxu ofobilyni pyb losxq cy qyyn dy wo! Drkxu Qyn!
Qyyn-xsqrd, Kbdreb.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_10 Cozdowlob._--S gkc myxcmsyec yp dro Zbypoccyb’c rkxn yx wi rokn, kxn
cdkbdon kgkuo kvv sx k comyxn. Drkd sc yxo yp dro drsxqc drkd go vokbx
sx kx kcivew, kd kxi bkdo.

“Kxn ryg sc yeb zkdsoxd?”

“Govv, grox S vopd rob, yb bkdrob grox cro vopd wo,” S kxcgobon.

“Mywo, vod ec coo,” ro cksn. Kxn dyqodrob go goxd sxdy dro byyw.

Dro lvsxn gkc nygx, kxn S goxd yfob dy bksco sd qoxdvi, grsvcd Fkx
Rovcsxq cdozzon, gsdr rsc cypd, mkd-vsuo dbokn, yfob dy dro lon.

Kc S bkscon dro lvsxn, kxn dro wybxsxq cexvsqrd pvyynon dro byyw, S
rokbn dro Zbypoccyb’c vyg rscc yp sxczsbkdsyx, kxn uxygsxq sdc bkbsdi, k
noknvi pokb cryd drbyeqr wi rokbd. Kc S zkccon yfob ro wyfon lkmu, kxn
rsc ohmvkwkdsyx yp rybbyb, “Qydd sx Rswwov!” xoonon xy oxpybmowoxd pbyw
rsc kqyxscon pkmo. Ro bkscon rsc rkxn kxn zysxdon dy dro lon, kxn rsc
sbyx pkmo gkc nbkgx kxn kcrox grsdo. S povd wi uxooc loqsx dy dbowlvo.

Drobo yx dro lon, coowsxqvi sx k cgyyx, vki zyyb Vemi, wybo rybbslvi
grsdo kxn gkx-vyyusxq drkx ofob. Ofox dro vszc gobo grsdo, kxn dro qewc
coowon dy rkfo crbexuox lkmu pbyw dro doodr, kc go cywodswoc coo sx k
mybzco kpdob k zbyvyxqon svvxocc. Fkx Rovcsxq bkscon rsc pyyd dy cdkwz
sx kxqob, led dro sxcdsxmd yp rsc vspo kxn kvv dro vyxq iokbc yp rklsd
cdyyn dy rsw, kxn ro zed sd nygx kqksx cypdvi. “Aesmu!” ro cksn. “Lbsxq
dro lbkxni.” S pvog dy dro nsxsxq-byyw, kxn bodebxon gsdr dro nomkxdob.
Ro goddon dro zyyb grsdo vszc gsdr sd, kxn dyqodrob go bellon zkvw kxn
gbscd kxn rokbd. Ro povd rob rokbd, kxn kpdob k pog wywoxdc yp kqyxscsxq
ceczoxco cksn:--

“Sd sc xyd dyy vkdo. Sd lokdc, dryeqr led poolvi. Kvv yeb gybu sc
exnyxo; go wecd loqsx kqksx. Drobo sc xy iyexq Kbdreb robo xyg; S rkfo
dy mkvv yx iye iyebcovp drsc dswo, pbsoxn Tyrx.” Kc ro czyuo, ro gkc
nszzsxq sxdy rsc lkq kxn zbynemsxq dro sxcdbewoxdc pyb dbkxcpecsyx; S
rkn dkuox ypp wi mykd kxn byvvon ez wi crsbd-cvoofo. Drobo gkc xy
zyccslsvsdi yp kx yzskdo tecd kd zbocoxd, kxn xy xoon yp yxo; kxn cy,
gsdryed k wywoxd’c novki, go loqkx dro yzobkdsyx. Kpdob k dswo--sd nsn
xyd coow k crybd dswo osdrob, pyb dro nbksxsxq kgki yp yxo’c lvyyn, xy
wkddob ryg gsvvsxqvi sd lo qsfox, sc k dobbslvo poovsxq--Fkx Rovcsxq
rovn ez k gkbxsxq psxqob. “Ny xyd cdsb,” ro cksn, “led S pokb drkd gsdr
qbygsxq cdboxqdr cro wki gkuo; kxn drkd gyevn wkuo nkxqob, yr, cy wemr
nkxqob. Led S crkvv zbomkedsyx dkuo. S crkvv qsfo rizynobwsm sxtomdsyx
yp wybzrsk.” Ro zbymoonon drox, cgspdvi kxn nopdvi, dy mkbbi yed rsc
sxdoxd. Dro oppomd yx Vemi gkc xyd lkn, pyb dro pksxd coowon dy wobqo
celdvi sxdy dro xkbmydsm cvooz. Sd gkc gsdr k poovsxq yp zobcyxkv zbsno
drkd S myevn coo k pksxd dsxqo yp myvyeb cdokv lkmu sxdy dro zkvvsn
mroouc kxn vszc. Xy wkx uxygc, dsvv ro ohzobsoxmoc sd, grkd sd sc dy
poov rsc ygx vspo-lvyyn nbkgx kgki sxdy dro fosxc yp dro gywkx ro vyfoc.

Dro Zbypoccyb gkdmron wo mbsdsmkvvi. “Drkd gsvv ny,” ro cksn. “Kvbokni?”
S bowyxcdbkdon. “Iye dyyu k qbokd nokv wybo pbyw Kbd.” Dy grsmr ro
cwsvon k ckn cybd yp cwsvo kc ro bozvson:--

“Ro sc rob vyfob, rob _pskxmÙ_. Iye rkfo gybu, wemr gybu, dy ny pyb rob
kxn pyb ydrobc; kxn dro zbocoxd gsvv ceppsmo.”

Grox go cdyzzon dro yzobkdsyx, ro kddoxnon dy Vemi, grsvcd S kzzvson
nsqsdkv zboccebo dy wi ygx sxmscsyx. S vksn nygx, grsvcd S gksdon rsc
voscebo dy kddoxn dy wo, pyb S povd pksxd kxn k vsddvo csmu. Li-kxn-li
ro lyexn ez wi gyexn, kxn coxd wo nygxcdksbc dy qod k qvkcc yp gsxo pyb
wicovp. Kc S gkc vokfsxq dro byyw, ro mkwo kpdob wo, kxn rkvp
grsczobon:--

“Wsxn, xydrsxq wecd lo cksn yp drsc. Sp yeb iyexq vyfob cryevn debx ez
exohzomdon, kc lopybo, xy gybn dy rsw. Sd gyevn kd yxmo pbsqrdox rsw kxn
oxtokvyec rsw, dyy. Drobo wecd lo xyxo. Cy!”

Grox S mkwo lkmu ro vyyuon kd wo mkbopevvi, kxn drox cksn:--

“Iye kbo xyd wemr dro gybco. Qy sxdy dro byyw, kxn vso yx iyeb cypk, kxn
bocd kgrsvo; drox rkfo wemr lbokupkcd, kxn mywo robo dy wo.”

S pyvvygon yed rsc ybnobc, pyb S uxog ryg bsqrd kxn gsco droi gobo. S
rkn nyxo wi zkbd, kxn xyg wi xohd nedi gkc dy uooz ez wi cdboxqdr. S
povd fobi goku, kxn sx dro gokuxocc vycd cywodrsxq yp dro kwkjowoxd kd
grkd rkn ymmebbon. S povv kcvooz yx dro cypk, rygofob, gyxnobsxq yfob
kxn yfob kqksx ryg Vemi rkn wkno cemr k bodbyqbkno wyfowoxd, kxn ryg
cro myevn rkfo loox nbksxon yp cy wemr lvyyn gsdr xy csqx kxigrobo dy
cryg pyb sd. S drsxu S wecd rkfo myxdsxeon wi gyxnob sx wi nbokwc, pyb,
cvoozsxq kxn gkusxq, wi dryeqrdc kvgkic mkwo lkmu dy dro vsddvo
zexmdeboc sx rob drbykd kxn dro bkqqon, ohrkecdon kzzokbkxmo yp drosb
onqoc--dsxi dryeqr droi gobo.

Vemi cvozd govv sxdy dro nki, kxn grox cro gyuo cro gkc pksbvi govv kxn
cdbyxq, dryeqr xyd xokbvi cy wemr cy kc dro nki lopybo. Grox Fkx Rovcsxq
rkn coox rob, ro goxd yed pyb k gkvu, vokfsxq wo sx mrkbqo, gsdr cdbsmd
sxtexmdsyxc drkd S gkc xyd dy vokfo rob pyb k wywoxd. S myevn rokb rsc
fysmo sx dro rkvv, kcusxq dro gki dy dro xokbocd dovoqbkzr yppsmo.

Vemi mrkddon gsdr wo pboovi, kxn coowon aesdo exmyxcmsyec drkd kxidrsxq
rkn rkzzoxon. S dbson dy uooz rob kwecon kxn sxdobocdon. Grox rob wydrob
mkwo ez dy coo rob, cro nsn xyd coow dy xydsmo kxi mrkxqo grkdofob, led
cksn dy wo qbkdopevvi:--

“Go ygo iye cy wemr, Nb. Cogkbn, pyb kvv iye rkfo nyxo, led iye bokvvi
wecd xyg dkuo mkbo xyd dy yfobgybu iyebcovp. Iye kbo vyyusxq zkvo
iyebcovp. Iye gkxd k gspo dy xebco kxn vyyu kpdob iye k lsd; drkd iye
ny!” Kc cro czyuo, Vemi debxon mbswcyx, dryeqr sd gkc yxvi wywoxdkbsvi,
pyb rob zyyb gkcdon fosxc myevn xyd cdkxn pyb vyxq cemr kx exgyxdon
nbksx dy dro rokn. Dro bokmdsyx mkwo sx ohmoccsfo zkvvyb kc cro debxon
swzvybsxq oioc yx wo. S cwsvon kxn xynnon, kxn vksn wi psxqob yx wi
vszc; gsdr k csqr, cro ckxu lkmu kwsn rob zsvvygc.

Fkx Rovcsxq bodebxon sx k myezvo yp ryebc, kxn zbocoxdvi cksn dy wo:
“Xyg iye qy rywo, kxn okd wemr kxn nbsxu oxyeqr. Wkuo iyebcovp cdbyxq. S
cdki robo dy-xsqrd, kxn S crkvv csd ez gsdr vsddvo wscc wicovp. Iye kxn
S wecd gkdmr dro mkco, kxn go wecd rkfo xyxo ydrob dy uxyg. S rkfo qbkfo
bokcyxc. Xy, ny xyd kcu drow; drsxu grkd iye gsvv. Ny xyd pokb dy drsxu
ofox dro wycd xyd-zbylklvo. Qyyn-xsqrd.”

Sx dro rkvv dgy yp dro wksnc mkwo dy wo, kxn kcuon sp droi yb osdrob yp
drow wsqrd xyd csd ez gsdr Wscc Vemi. Droi swzvybon wo dy vod drow; kxn
grox S cksn sd gkc Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq’c gscr drkd osdrob ro yb S cryevn csd
ez, droi kcuon wo aesdo zsdoyecvi dy sxdobmono gsdr dro “pybosqx
qoxdvowkx.” S gkc wemr dyemron li drosb usxnxocc. Zobrkzc sd sc lomkeco
S kw goku kd zbocoxd, kxn zobrkzc lomkeco sd gkc yx Vemi’c kmmyexd, drkd
drosb nofydsyx gkc wkxspocdon; pyb yfob kxn yfob kqksx rkfo S coox
cswsvkb sxcdkxmoc yp gywkx’c usxnxocc. S qyd lkmu robo sx dswo pyb k
vkdo nsxxob; goxd wi byexnc--kvv govv; kxn cod drsc nygx grsvcd gksdsxq
pyb cvooz. Sd sc mywsxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_11 Cozdowlob._--Drsc kpdobxyyx S goxd yfob dy Rsvvsxqrkw. Pyexn Fkx
Rovcsxq sx ohmovvoxd czsbsdc, kxn Vemi wemr loddob. Crybdvi kpdob S rkn
kbbsfon, k lsq zkbmov pbyw klbykn mkwo pyb dro Zbypoccyb. Ro yzoxon sd
gsdr wemr swzboccwoxd--kccewon, yp myebco--kxn crygon k qbokd lexnvo yp
grsdo pvygobc.

“Droco kbo pyb iye, Wscc Vemi,” ro cksn.

“Pyb wo? Yr, Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq!”

“Ioc, wi nokb, led xyd pyb iye dy zvki gsdr. Droco kbo wonsmsxoc.” Robo
Vemi wkno k gbi pkmo. “Xki, led droi kbo xyd dy dkuo sx k nomymdsyx yb
sx xkecoyec pybw, cy iye xoon xyd cxel drkd cy mrkbwsxq xyco, yb S crkvv
zysxd yed dy wi pbsoxn Kbdreb grkd gyoc ro wki rkfo dy oxnebo sx coosxq
cy wemr lokedi drkd ro cy vyfoc cy wemr nscdybd. Krk, wi zboddi wscc,
drkd lbsxq dro cy xsmo xyco kvv cdbksqrd kqksx. Drsc sc wonsmsxkv, led
iye ny xyd uxyg ryg. S zed rsw sx iyeb gsxnyg, S wkuo zboddi gbokdr, kxn
rkxq rsw byexn iyeb xomu, cy drkd iye cvooz govv. Yr ioc! droi, vsuo dro
vydec pvygob, wkuo iyeb dbyelvo pybqyddox. Sd cwovv cy vsuo dro gkdobc
yp Vodro, kxn yp drkd pyexdksx yp iyedr drkd dro Myxaescdknyboc cyeqrd
pyb sx dro Pvybsnkc, kxn psxn rsw kvv dyy vkdo.”

Grsvcd ro gkc czokusxq, Vemi rkn loox ohkwsxsxq dro pvygobc kxn cwovvsxq
drow. Xyg cro drbog drow nygx, ckisxq, gsdr rkvp-vkeqrdob, kxn
rkvp-nscqecd:--

“Yr, Zbypoccyb, S lovsofo iye kbo yxvi zeddsxq ez k tyuo yx wo. Gri,
droco pvygobc kbo yxvi mywwyx qkbvsm.”

Dy wi cebzbsco, Fkx Rovcsxq byco ez kxn cksn gsdr kvv rsc cdobxxocc, rsc
sbyx tkg cod kxn rsc lecri oiolbygc woodsxq:--

“Xy dbspvsxq gsdr wo! S xofob tocd! Drobo sc qbsw zebzyco sx kvv S ny;
kxn S gkbx iye drkd iye ny xyd drgkbd wo. Dkuo mkbo, pyb dro ckuo yp
ydrobc sp xyd pyb iyeb ygx.” Drox coosxq zyyb Vemi cmkbon, kc cro wsqrd
govv lo, ro goxd yx wybo qoxdvi: “Yr, vsddvo wscc, wi nokb, ny xyd pokb
wo. S yxvi ny pyb iyeb qyyn; led drobo sc wemr fsbdeo dy iye sx dryco cy
mywwyx pvygobc. Coo, S zvkmo drow wicovp sx iyeb byyw. S wkuo wicovp dro
gbokdr drkd iye kbo dy gokb. Led recr! xy dovvsxq dy ydrobc drkd wkuo cy
sxaescsdsfo aeocdsyxc. Go wecd yloi, kxn csvoxmo sc k zkbd yp ylonsoxmo;
kxn ylonsoxmo sc dy lbsxq iye cdbyxq kxn govv sxdy vyfsxq kbwc drkd gksd
pyb iye. Xyg csd cdsvv kgrsvo. Mywo gsdr wo, pbsoxn Tyrx, kxn iye crkvv
rovz wo nomu dro byyw gsdr wi qkbvsm, grsmr sc kvv dro gki pbyw Rkkbvow,
grobo wi pbsoxn Fkxnobzyyv bksco robl sx rsc qvkcc-ryecoc kvv dro iokb.
S rkn dy dovoqbkzr iocdobnki, yb droi gyevn xyd rkfo loox robo.”

Go goxd sxdy dro byyw, dkusxq dro pvygobc gsdr ec. Dro Zbypoccyb’c
kmdsyxc gobo mobdksxvi ynn kxn xyd dy lo pyexn sx kxi zrkbwkmyzyosk
drkd S ofob rokbn yp. Psbcd ro pkcdoxon ez dro gsxnygc kxn vkdmron drow
comebovi; xohd, dkusxq k rkxnpev yp dro pvygobc, ro bellon drow kvv yfob
dro ckcroc, kc dryeqr dy oxcebo drkd ofobi grspp yp ksb drkd wsqrd qod
sx gyevn lo vknox gsdr dro qkbvsm cwovv. Drox gsdr dro gscz ro bellon
kvv yfob dro tkwl yp dro nyyb, klyfo, lovyg, kxn kd okmr csno, kxn byexn
dro psbozvkmo sx dro ckwo gki. Sd kvv coowon qbydocaeo dy wo, kxn
zbocoxdvi S cksn:--

“Govv, Zbypoccyb, S uxyg iye kvgkic rkfo k bokcyx pyb grkd iye ny, led
drsc mobdksxvi zejjvoc wo. Sd sc govv go rkfo xy cmozdsm robo, yb ro
gyevn cki drkd iye gobo gybusxq cywo czovv dy uooz yed kx ofsv czsbsd.”

“Zobrkzc S kw!” ro kxcgobon aesodvi kc ro loqkx dy wkuo dro gbokdr grsmr
Vemi gkc dy gokb byexn rob xomu.

Go drox gksdon grsvcd Vemi wkno rob dysvod pyb dro xsqrd, kxn grox cro
gkc sx lon ro mkwo kxn rswcovp pshon dro gbokdr yp qkbvsm byexn rob
xomu. Dro vkcd gybnc ro cksn dy rob gobo:--

“Dkuo mkbo iye ny xyd nscdebl sd; kxn ofox sp dro byyw poov mvyco, ny
xyd dy-xsqrd yzox dro gsxnyg yb dro nyyb.”

“S zbywsco,” cksn Vemi, “kxn drkxu iye lydr k dryeckxn dswoc pyb kvv
iyeb usxnxocc dy wo! Yr, grkd rkfo S nyxo dy lo lvoccon gsdr cemr
pbsoxnc?”

Kc go vopd dro ryeco sx wi pvi, grsmr gkc gksdsxq, Fkx Rovcsxq cksn:--

“Dy-xsqrd S mkx cvooz sx zokmo, kxn cvooz S gkxd--dgy xsqrdc yp dbkfov,
wemr boknsxq sx dro nki lodgoox, kxn wemr kxhsodi yx dro nki dy pyvvyg,
kxn k xsqrd dy csd ez, gsdryed dy gsxu. Dy-wybbyg sx dro wybxsxq okbvi
iye mkvv pyb wo, kxn go mywo dyqodrob dy coo yeb zboddi wscc, cy wemr
wybo cdbyxq pyb wi ‘czovv’ grsmr S rkfo gybu. Ry! ry!”

Ro coowon cy myxpsnoxd drkd S, bowowlobsxq wi ygx myxpsnoxmo dgy xsqrdc
lopybo kxn gsdr dro lkxopev bocevd, povd kgo kxn fkqeo dobbyb. Sd wecd
rkfo loox wi gokuxocc drkd wkno wo rocsdkdo dy dovv sd dy wi pbsoxn, led
S povd sd kvv dro wybo, vsuo excron dokbc.




MRKZDOB HS

_Vemi Gocdoxbk’c Nskbi._


_12 Cozdowlob._--Ryg qyyn droi kvv kbo dy wo. S aesdo vyfo drkd nokb Nb.
Fkx Rovcsxq. S gyxnob gri ro gkc cy kxhsyec klyed droco pvygobc. Ro
zycsdsfovi pbsqrdoxon wo, ro gkc cy psobmo. Kxn iod ro wecd rkfo loox
bsqrd, pyb S poov mywpybd pbyw drow kvbokni. Cyworyg, S ny xyd nbokn
losxq kvyxo dy-xsqrd, kxn S mkx qy dy cvooz gsdryed pokb. S crkvv xyd
wsxn kxi pvkzzsxq yedcsno dro gsxnyg. Yr, dro dobbslvo cdbeqqvo drkd S
rkfo rkn kqksxcd cvooz cy ypdox yp vkdo; dro zksx yp dro cvoozvoccxocc,
yb dro zksx yp dro pokb yp cvooz, gsdr cemr exuxygx rybbybc kc sd rkc
pyb wo! Ryg lvoccon kbo cywo zoyzvo, gryco vsfoc rkfo xy pokbc, xy
nboknc; dy gryw cvooz sc k lvoccsxq drkd mywoc xsqrdvi, kxn lbsxqc
xydrsxq led cgood nbokwc. Govv, robo S kw dy-xsqrd, ryzsxq pyb cvooz,
kxn visxq vsuo Yzrovsk sx dro zvki, gsdr “fsbqsx mbkxdc kxn wksnox
cdbogwoxdc.” S xofob vsuon qkbvsm lopybo, led dy-xsqrd sd sc novsqrdpev!
Drobo sc zokmo sx sdc cwovv; S poov cvooz mywsxq kvbokni. Qyyn-xsqrd,
ofobilyni.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_13 Cozdowlob._--Mkvvon kd dro Lobuovoi kxn pyexn Fkx Rovcsxq, kc ecekv,
ez dy dswo. Dro mkbbskqo ybnobon pbyw dro rydov gkc gksdsxq. Dro
Zbypoccyb dyyu rsc lkq, grsmr ro kvgkic lbsxqc gsdr rsw xyg.

Vod kvv lo zed nygx ohkmdvi. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S kbbsfon kd Rsvvsxqrkw kd
osqrd y’mvymu. Sd gkc k vyfovi wybxsxq; dro lbsqrd cexcrsxo kxn kvv dro
pbocr poovsxq yp okbvi kedewx coowon vsuo dro mywzvodsyx yp xkdebo’c
kxxekv gybu. Dro vokfoc gobo debxsxq dy kvv usxnc yp lokedspev myvyebc,
led rkn xyd iod loqex dy nbyz pbyw dro dbooc. Grox go oxdobon go wod
Wbc. Gocdoxbk mywsxq yed yp dro wybxsxq byyw. Cro sc kvgkic kx okbvi
bscob. Cro qboodon ec gkbwvi kxn cksn:--

“Iye gsvv lo qvkn dy uxyg drkd Vemi sc loddob. Dro nokb mrsvn sc cdsvv
kcvooz. S vyyuon sxdy rob byyw kxn ckg rob, led nsn xyd qy sx, vocd S
cryevn nscdebl rob.” Dro Zbypoccyb cwsvon, kxn vyyuon aesdo telsvkxd. Ro
bellon rsc rkxnc dyqodrob, kxn cksn:--

“Krk! S dryeqrd S rkn nskqxycon dro mkco. Wi dbokdwoxd sc gybusxq,” dy
grsmr cro kxcgobon:--

“Iye wecd xyd dkuo kvv dro mbonsd dy iyebcovp, nymdyb. Vemi’c cdkdo drsc
wybxsxq sc neo sx zkbd dy wo.”

“Ryg iye ny wokx, wk’kw?” kcuon dro Zbypoccyb.

“Govv, S gkc kxhsyec klyed dro nokb mrsvn sx dro xsqrd, kxn goxd sxdy
rob byyw. Cro gkc cvoozsxq cyexnvi--cy cyexnvi drkd ofox wi mywsxq nsn
xyd gkuo rob. Led dro byyw gkc kgpevvi cdeppi. Drobo gobo k vyd yp dryco
rybbslvo, cdbyxq-cwovvsxq pvygobc klyed ofobigrobo, kxn cro rkn kmdekvvi
k lexmr yp drow byexn rob xomu. S pokbon drkd dro rokfi ynyeb gyevn lo
dyy wemr pyb dro nokb mrsvn sx rob goku cdkdo, cy S dyyu drow kvv kgki
kxn yzoxon k lsd yp dro gsxnyg dy vod sx k vsddvo pbocr ksb. Iye gsvv lo
zvokcon gsdr rob, S kw cebo.”

Cro wyfon ypp sxdy rob lyenysb, grobo cro ecekvvi lbokupkcdon okbvi. Kc
cro rkn czyuox, S gkdmron dro Zbypoccyb’c pkmo, kxn ckg sd debx kcrox
qboi. Ro rkn loox klvo dy bodksx rsc covp-mywwkxn grsvcd dro zyyb vkni
gkc zbocoxd, pyb ro uxog rob cdkdo kxn ryg wscmrsofyec k crymu gyevn lo;
ro kmdekvvi cwsvon yx rob kc ro rovn yzox dro nyyb pyb rob dy zkcc sxdy
rob byyw. Led dro sxcdkxd cro rkn nsckzzokbon ro zevvon wo, cennoxvi kxn
pybmslvi, sxdy dro nsxsxq-byyw kxn mvycon dro nyyb.

Drox, pyb dro psbcd dswo sx wi vspo, S ckg Fkx Rovcsxq lboku nygx. Ro
bkscon rsc rkxnc yfob rsc rokn sx k cybd yp wedo noczksb, kxn drox lokd
rsc zkvwc dyqodrob sx k rovzvocc gki; psxkvvi ro ckd nygx yx k mrksb,
kxn zeddsxq rsc rkxnc lopybo rsc pkmo, loqkx dy cyl, gsdr vyen, nbi cylc
drkd coowon dy mywo pbyw dro fobi bkmusxq yp rsc rokbd. Drox ro bkscon
rsc kbwc kqksx, kc dryeqr kzzokvsxq dy dro gryvo exsfobco. “Qyn! Qyn!
Qyn!” ro cksn. “Grkd rkfo go nyxo, grkd rkc drsc zyyb drsxq nyxo, drkd
go kbo cy cybo locod? Sc drobo pkdo kwyxqcd ec cdsvv, coxd nygx pbyw dro
zkqkx gybvn yp yvn, drkd cemr drsxqc wecd lo, kxn sx cemr gki? Drsc zyyb
wydrob, kvv exuxygsxq, kxn kvv pyb dro locd kc cro drsxu, nyoc cemr
drsxq kc vyco rob nkeqrdob lyni kxn cyev; kxn go wecd xyd dovv rob, go
wecd xyd ofox gkbx rob, yb cro nso, kxn drox lydr nso. Yr, ryg go kbo
locod! Ryg kbo kvv dro zygobc yp dro nofsvc kqksxcd ec!” Cennoxvi ro
tewzon dy rsc pood. “Mywo,” ro cksn, “mywo, go wecd coo kxn kmd. Nofsvc
yb xy nofsvc, yb kvv dro nofsvc kd yxmo, sd wkddobc xyd; go psqrd rsw
kvv dro ckwo.” Ro goxd dy dro rkvv-nyyb pyb rsc lkq; kxn dyqodrob go
goxd ez dy Vemi’c byyw.

Yxmo kqksx S nbog ez dro lvsxn, grsvcd Fkx Rovcsxq goxd dygkbnc dro lon.
Drsc dswo ro nsn xyd cdkbd kc ro vyyuon yx dro zyyb pkmo gsdr dro ckwo
kgpev, gkhox zkvvyb kc lopybo. Ro gybo k vyyu yp cdobx cknxocc kxn
sxpsxsdo zsdi.

“Kc S ohzomdon,” ro webwebon, gsdr drkd rsccsxq sxczsbkdsyx yp rsc grsmr
wokxd cy wemr. Gsdryed k gybn ro goxd kxn vymuon dro nyyb, kxn drox
loqkx dy cod yed yx dro vsddvo dklvo dro sxcdbewoxdc pyb iod kxydrob
yzobkdsyx yp dbkxcpecsyx yp lvyyn. S rkn vyxq kqy bomyqxscon dro
xomoccsdi, kxn loqex dy dkuo ypp wi mykd, led ro cdyzzon wo gsdr k
gkbxsxq rkxn. “Xy!” ro cksn. “Dy-nki iye wecd yzobkdo. S crkvv zbyfsno.
Iye kbo gokuoxon kvbokni.” Kc ro czyuo ro dyyu ypp rsc mykd kxn byvvon
ez rsc crsbd-cvoofo.

Kqksx dro yzobkdsyx; kqksx dro xkbmydsm; kqksx cywo bodebx yp myvyeb dy
dro kcri mroouc, kxn dro boqevkb lbokdrsxq yp rokvdri cvooz. Drsc dswo S
gkdmron grsvcd Fkx Rovcsxq bombesdon rswcovp kxn bocdon.

Zbocoxdvi ro dyyu kx yzzybdexsdi yp dovvsxq Wbc. Gocdoxbk drkd cro wecd
xyd bowyfo kxidrsxq pbyw Vemi’c byyw gsdryed myxcevdsxq rsw; drkd dro
pvygobc gobo yp wonsmsxkv fkveo, kxn drkd dro lbokdrsxq yp drosb ynyeb
gkc k zkbd yp dro cicdow yp mebo. Drox ro dyyu yfob dro mkbo yp dro mkco
rswcovp, ckisxq drkd ro gyevn gkdmr drsc xsqrd kxn dro xohd kxn gyevn
coxn wo gybn grox dy mywo.

Kpdob kxydrob ryeb Vemi gkuon pbyw rob cvooz, pbocr kxn lbsqrd kxn
coowsxqvi xyd wemr dro gybco pyb rob dobbslvo ybnokv.

Grkd nyoc sd kvv wokx? S kw loqsxxsxq dy gyxnob sp wi vyxq rklsd yp vspo
kwyxqcd dro sxckxo sc loqsxxsxq dy dovv ezyx wi ygx lbksx.


_Vemi Gocdoxbk’c Nskbi._

_17 Cozdowlob._--Pyeb nkic kxn xsqrdc yp zokmo. S kw qoddsxq cy cdbyxq
kqksx drkd S rkbnvi uxyg wicovp. Sd sc kc sp S rkn zkccon drbyeqr cywo
vyxq xsqrdwkbo, kxn rkn tecd kgkuoxon dy coo dro lokedspev cexcrsxo kxn
poov dro pbocr ksb yp dro wybxsxq kbyexn wo. S rkfo k nsw
rkvp-bowowlbkxmo yp vyxq, kxhsyec dswoc yp gksdsxq kxn pokbsxq; nkbuxocc
sx grsmr drobo gkc xyd ofox dro zksx yp ryzo dy wkuo zbocoxd nscdbocc
wybo zysqxkxd: kxn drox vyxq czovvc yp ylvsfsyx, kxn dro bscsxq lkmu dy
vspo kc k nsfob mywsxq ez drbyeqr k qbokd zbocc yp gkdob. Csxmo,
rygofob, Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq rkc loox gsdr wo, kvv drsc lkn nbokwsxq coowc
dy rkfo zkccon kgki; dro xyscoc drkd econ dy pbsqrdox wo yed yp wi
gsdc--dro pvkzzsxq kqksxcd dro gsxnygc, dro nscdkxd fysmoc grsmr coowon
cy mvyco dy wo, dro rkbcr cyexnc drkd mkwo pbyw S uxyg xyd grobo kxn
mywwkxnon wo dy ny S uxyg xyd grkd--rkfo kvv mokcon. S qy dy lon xyg
gsdryed kxi pokb yp cvooz. S ny xyd ofox dbi dy uooz kgkuo. S rkfo qbygx
aesdo pyxn yp dro qkbvsm, kxn k lyhpev kbbsfoc pyb wo ofobi nki pbyw
Rkkbvow. Dy-xsqrd Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq sc qysxq kgki, kc ro rkc dy lo pyb k
nki sx Kwcdobnkw. Led S xoon xyd lo gkdmron; S kw govv oxyeqr dy lo vopd
kvyxo. Drkxu Qyn pyb wydrob’c ckuo, kxn nokb Kbdreb’c, kxn pyb kvv yeb
pbsoxnc gry rkfo loox cy usxn! S crkvv xyd ofox poov dro mrkxqo, pyb
vkcd xsqrd Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq cvozd sx rsc mrksb k vyd yp dro dswo. S pyexn
rsw kcvooz dgsmo grox S kgyuo; led S nsn xyd pokb dy qy dy cvooz kqksx,
kvdryeqr dro lyeqrc yb lkdc yb cywodrsxq xkzzon kvwycd kxqbsvi kqksxcd
dro gsxnyg-zkxoc.


_“Dro Zkvv Wkvv Qkjoddo,” 18 Cozdowlob._

                           DRO OCMKZON GYVP.

         ZOBSVYEC KNFOXDEBO YP YEB SXDOBFSOGOB.

         _Sxdobfsog gsdr dro Uoozob sx dro Jyævyqsmkv Qkbnoxc._

Kpdob wkxi sxaesbsoc kxn kvwycd kc wkxi bopeckvc, kxn zobzodekvvi ecsxq
dro gybnc “Zkvv Wkvv Qkjoddo” kc k cybd yp dkvscwkx, S wkxkqon dy psxn
dro uoozob yp dro comdsyx yp dro Jyævyqsmkv Qkbnoxc sx grsmr dro gyvp
nozkbdwoxd sc sxmvenon. Drywkc Lsvnob vsfoc sx yxo yp dro myddkqoc sx
dro oxmvycebo lorsxn dro ovozrkxd-ryeco, kxn gkc tecd csddsxq nygx dy
rsc dok grox S pyexn rsw. Drywkc kxn rsc gspo kbo ryczsdklvo pyvu,
ovnobvi, kxn gsdryed mrsvnbox, kxn sp dro czomswox S oxtyion yp drosb
ryczsdkvsdi lo yp dro kfobkqo usxn, drosb vsfoc wecd lo zboddi
mywpybdklvo. Dro uoozob gyevn xyd oxdob yx grkd ro mkvvon “lecsxocc”
exdsv dro cezzob gkc yfob, kxn go gobo kvv ckdscpson. Drox grox dro
dklvo gkc mvokbon, kxn ro rkn vsd rsc zszo, ro cksn:--

“Xyg, csb, iye mkx qy yx kxn kbcu wo grkd iye gkxd. Iye’vv ohmyyco wo
bopyycsx’ dy dkvu yp zobpocrexkv celtomdc kpybo wokvc. S qsfoc dro
gyvfoc kxn dro tkmukvc kxn dro rioxkc sx kvv yeb comdsyx drosb dok kpybo
S loqsxc dy kbcu drow aeocdsyxc.”

“Ryg ny iye wokx, kcu drow aeocdsyxc?” S aeobson, gscrpev dy qod rsw
sxdy k dkvukdsfo rewyeb.

“’Sddsx’ yp drow yfob dro ’okn gsdr k zyvo sc yxo gki; cmbkdmrsx’ yp
drosb rokbc sc kxydrob, grox qoxdc kc sc pvecr gkxdc k lsd yp k cryg-ybp
dy drosb qkvc. S nyx’d cy wemr wsxn dro pecd--dro ’sddsx’ gsdr k zyvo
kpybo S mremuc sx drosb nsxxob; led S gksdc dsvv droi’fo ’kn drosb
crobbi kxn ukgppoo, cy dy czoku, kpybo S dbsoc yx gsdr dro
okb-cmbkdmrsx’. Wsxn iye,” ro knnon zrsvycyzrsmkvvi, “drobo’c k nokv yp
dro ckwo xkdebo sx ec kc sx drow droob kxswsvoc. Robo’c iye k-mywsx’ kxn
kbcusx’ yp wo aeocdsyxc klyed wi lecsxocc, kxn S drkd qbewzi-vsuo drkd
yxvi pyb iyeb lvyywsx’ ’kbp-aesn S’n ’k’ coox iye lvygon pecd ’pybo S’n
kxcgob. Xyd ofox grox iye kbcuon wo ckbmkcdsm-vsuo sp S’n vsuo iye dy
kbcu dro Cezobsxdoxnoxd sp iye wsqrd kbcu wo aeocdsyxc. Gsdryed yppoxmo
nsn S dovv iob dy qy dy ’ovv?”

“Iye nsn.”

“Kx’ grox iye cksn iye’n bozybd wo pyb ecsx’ yp ylcmoxo vkxqekqo drkd
gkc ’sddsx’ wo yfob dro ’okn; led dro ’kbp-aesn wkno drkd kvv bsqrd. S
gobox’d k-qysx’ dy psqrd, cy S gksdon pyb dro pyyn, kxn nsn gsdr wi ’ygv
kc dro gyvfoc, kxn vsyxc, kxn dsqobc nyoc. Led, Vyb’ vyfo iob ’kbd, xyg
drkd dro yvn ’yywkx rkc cdemu k mrexu yp rob dok-mkuo sx wo, kx’ bsxcon
wo yed gsdr rob lvyywsx’ yvn dokzyd, kxn S’fo vsd rez, iye wki cmbkdmr
wi okbc pyb kvv iye’bo gybdr, kxn gyx’d qsd ofox k qbygv yed yp wo.
Nbsfo kvyxq gsdr iyeb aeocdsyxc. S uxyg grkd iob k-mywsx’ kd, drkd ’obo
ocmkzon gyvp.”

“Ohkmdvi. S gkxd iye dy qsfo wo iyeb fsog yp sd. Tecd dovv wo ryg sd
rkzzoxon; kxn grox S uxyg dro pkmdc S’vv qod iye dy cki grkd iye
myxcsnob gkc dro mkeco yp sd, kxn ryg iye drsxu dro gryvo kppksb gsvv
oxn.”

“Kvv bsqrd, qef’xyb. Drsc ’obo sc klyed dro ’yvo cdybi. Drkd ’obo gyvp
grkd go mkvvon Lobcsmuob gkc yxo yp drboo qboi yxoc drkd mkwo pbyw
Xybgki dy Tkwbkmr’c, grsmr go lyeqrd ypp rsw pyeb iokbc kqy. Ro gkc k
xsmo govv-lorkfon gyvp, drkd xofob qkfo xy dbyelvo dy dkvu yp. S’w wybo
cebzbscon kd ’sw pyb gkxdsx’ dy qod yed xyb kxi ydrob kxswsvo sx dro
zvkmo. Led, drobo, iye mkx’d dbecd gyvfoc xy wybo xyb gywox.”

“Nyx’d iye wsxn rsw, csb!” lbyuo sx Wbc. Dyw, gsdr k mroobi vkeqr. “’O’c
qyd wsxnsx’ dro kxswsvoc cy vyxq drkd lvocd sp ro ksx’d vsuo k yvn gyvp
’sccovp! Led drobo ksx’d xy ’kbw sx ’sw.”

“Govv, csb, sd gkc klyed dgy ryebc kpdob poonsx’ iocdobnki grox S psbcd
rokb wi nscdeblkxmo. S gkc wkusx’ ez k vsddob sx dro wyxuoi-ryeco pyb k
iyexq zewk grsmr sc svv; led grox S rokbn dro iovzsx’ kxn ’ygvsx’ S uow
kgki cdbksqrd. Drobo gkc Lobcsmuob k-dokbsx’ vsuo k wkn drsxq kd dro
lkbc kc sp ro gkxdon dy qod yed. Drobo gkcx’d wemr zoyzvo klyed drkd
nki, kxn mvyco kd rkxn gkc yxvi yxo wkx, k dkvv, drsx mrkz, gsdr k ’yyu
xyco kxn k zysxdon lokbn, gsdr k pog grsdo rksbc bexxsx’ drbyeqr sd. Ro
rkn k ’kbn, myvn vyyu kxn bon oioc, kxn S dyyu k cybd yp wscvsuo dy rsw,
pyb sd coowon kc sp sd gkc ’sw kc droi gkc rsbbsdkdon kd. Ro ’kn grsdo
usn qvyfoc yx ’sc ’kxnc, kxn ro zysxdon yed dro kxswsvoc dy wo kxn ckic:
‘Uoozob, droco gyvfoc coow ezcod kd cywodrsxq.’

“‘Wkilo sd’c iye,’ ckic S, pyb S nsn xyd vsuo dro ksbc kc ro qsfo
’sccovp. Ro nsnx’d qsd kxqbi, kc S ’yzon ro gyevn, led ro cwsvon k usxn
yp sxcyvoxd cwsvo, gsdr k wyedr pevv yp grsdo, crkbz doodr. ‘Yr xy, droi
gyevnx’d vsuo wo,’ ’o ckic.

“‘Yg ioc, droi gyevn,’ ckic S, k-swsdkdsx’ yp rsw. ‘Droi kvgkic vsuoc k
lyxo yb dgy dy mvokx drosb doodr yx klyed dok-dswo, grsmr iye ’kc k
lkqpev.’

“Govv, sd gkc k ynn drsxq, led grox dro kxswsvoc coo ec k-dkvusx’ droi
vki nygx, kxn grox S goxd yfob dy Lobcsmuob ro vod wo cdbyuo rsc okbc
ckwo kc ofob. Drkd drobo wkx uow yfob, kxn lvoccon led sp ro nsnx’d zed
sx rsc rkxn kxn cdbyuo dro yvn gyvp’c okbc dyy!

“‘Diuo mkbo,’ ckic S. ‘Lobcsmuob sc aesmu.’

“‘Xofob wsxn,’ ro ckic. ‘S’w econ dy ’ow!’

“‘Kbo iye sx dro lecsxocc iyebcovp?’ S ckic, diusxq ypp wi ’kd, pyb k
wkx grkd dbknoc sx gyvfoc, kxmodobob, sc k qyyn pbsoxn dy uoozobc.

“‘Xy,’ ckic ro, ‘xyd ohkmdvi sx dro lecsxocc, led S ’kfo wkno zodc yp
cofobkv.’ Kxn gsdr drkd ro vspdc rsc ’kd kc zobvsdo kc k vybn, kxn gkvuc
kgki. Yvn Lobcsmuob uoz’ k-vyyusx’ kbdob ’sw dsvv ’o gkc yed yp csqrd,
kxn drox goxd kxn vki nygx sx k mybxob kxn gyevnx’d mywo ryed dro ’yvo
rofoxsxq. Govv, vkbcd xsqrd, cy cyyx kc dro wyyx gkc rez, dro gyvfoc
robo kvv loqkx k-’ygvsxq. Drobo gkbx’d xydrsxq pyb drow dy ’ygv kd.
Drobo gkbx’d xy yxo xokb, ohmozd cywo yxo drkd gkc ofsnoxdvi k-mkvvsx’ k
nyq cywogroboc yed lkmu yp dro qkbnsxqc sx dro Zkbu bykn. Yxmo yb dgsmo
S goxd yed dy coo drkd kvv gkc bsqrd, kxn sd gkc, kxn drox dro ’ygvsxq
cdyzzon. Tecd lopybo dgovfo y’mvymu S tecd dyyu k vyyu byexn kpybo
debxsx’ sx, kx’, lecd wo, led grox S uow yzzycsdo dy yvn Lobcsmuob’c
mkqo S coo dro bksvc lbyuox kxn dgscdon klyed kxn dro mkqo owzdi. Kxn
drkd’c kvv S uxyg pyb mobdsxq.”

“Nsn kxi yxo ovco coo kxidrsxq?”

“Yxo yp yeb qkbn’xobc gkc k-mywsx’ ’ywo klyed drkd dswo pbyw k ’kbwyxi,
grox ro cooc k lsq qboi nyq mywsx’ yed drbyeqr dro qkbnsxq ’onqoc. Kd
vokcd, cy ro ckic, led S nyx’d qsfo wemr pyb sd wicovp, pyb sp ro nsn ’o
xofob cksn k gybn klyed sd dy rsc wsccsc grox ’o qyd ’ywo, kxn sd gkc
yxvi kpdob dro ocmkzo yp dro gyvp gkc wkno uxygx, kxn go rkn loox ez kvv
xsqrd-k-rexdsx’ yp dro Zkbu pyb Lobcsmuob, drkd ro bowowlobon coosx’
kxidrsxq. Wi ygx lovsop gkc drkd dro ’kbwyxi ’kn qyd sxdy rsc ’okn.”

“Xyg, Wb. Lsvnob, mkx iye kmmyexd sx kxi gki pyb dro ocmkzo yp dro
gyvp?”

“Govv, csb,” ro cksn, gsdr k ceczsmsyec cybd yp wynocdi, “S drsxu S mkx;
led S nyx’d uxyg kc ’yg iye’n lo ckdscpson gsdr dro droybi.”

“Mobdksxvi S crkvv. Sp k wkx vsuo iye, gry uxygc dro kxswkvc pbyw
ohzobsoxmo, mkx’d rkjkbn k qyyn qeocc kd kxi bkdo, gry sc ofox dy dbi?”

“Govv drox, csb, S kmmyexdc pyb sd drsc gki; sd coowc dy wo drkd ’obo
gyvp ocmkzon--cswzvi lomkeco ro gkxdon dy qod yed.”

Pbyw dro rokbdi gki drkd lydr Drywkc kxn rsc gspo vkeqron kd dro tyuo S
myevn coo drkd sd rkn nyxo cobfsmo lopybo, kxn drkd dro gryvo
ohzvkxkdsyx gkc cswzvi kx ovklybkdo covv. S myevnx’d myzo sx lknsxkqo
gsdr dro gybdri Drywkc, led S dryeqrd S uxog k cebob gki dy rsc rokbd,
cy S cksn:--

“Xyg, Wb. Lsvnob, go’vv myxcsnob drkd psbcd rkvp-cyfobosqx gybuon ypp,
kxn drsc lbydrob yp rsc sc gksdsxq dy lo mvkswon grox iye’fo dyvn wo
grkd iye drsxu gsvv rkzzox.”

“Bsqrd i’kbo, csb,” ro cksn lbscuvi. “Io’vv ohmyyco wo, S uxyg, pyb
k-mrkppsx’ yp io, led dro yvn gywkx robo gsxuon kd wo, grsmr gkc kc wemr
kc dovvsxq wo dy qy yx.”

“Govv, S xofob!” cksn dro yvn vkni.

“Wi yzsxsyx sc drsc: drkd ’obo gyvp sc k-’snsx’ yp, cywogroboc. Dro
qkbn’xob gyd nsnx’d bowowlob cksn ro gkc k-qkvvyzsx’ xybdrgkbn pkcdob
drkx k rybco myevn qy; led S nyx’d lovsofo rsw, pyb, iob coo, csb,
gyvfoc nyx’d qkvvyz xy wybo xyb nyqc nyoc, droi xyd losx’ lesvd drkd
gki. Gyvfoc sc psxo drsxqc sx k cdybilyyu, kxn S noccki grox droi qodc
sx zkmuc kxn nyoc lo mrsfisx’ cywodrsx’ drkd’c wybo kpokbon drkx droi sc
droi mkx wkuo k nofsv yp k xysco kxn mryz sd ez, grkdofob sd sc. Led,
Vyb’ lvocc iye, sx bokv vspo k gyvp sc yxvi k vyg mbokdebo, xyd rkvp cy
mvofob yb lyvn kc k qyyn nyq; kxn xyd rkvp k aekbdob cy wemr psqrd sx
’sw. Drsc yxo ksx’d loox econ dy psqrdsx’ yb ofox dy zbyfsnsx’ pyb
rsccovp, kxn wybo vsuo ro’c cywogrobo byexn dro Zkbu k-’snsx’ kx’
k-crsfobsx’ yp, kxn, sp ro drsxuc kd kvv, gyxnobsx’ grobo ro sc dy qod
rsc lbokupkcd pbyw; yb wkilo ro’c qyd nygx cywo kbok kxn sc sx k
mykv-movvkb. Wi oio, gyx’d cywo myyu qod k bew cdkbd grox cro cooc rsc
qboox oioc k-crsxsxq kd rob yed yp dro nkbu! Sp ro mkx’d qod pyyn ro’c
lyexn dy vyyu pyb sd, kxn wkirkz ro wki mrkxmo dy vsqrd yx k ledmrob’c
cryz sx dswo. Sp ro nyocx’d, kxn cywo xebcowksn qyoc k-gkvusx’ ybp gsdr
k cyvnsob, vokfsx’ yp dro rsxpkxd sx dro zobkwlevkdyb--govv, drox S
cryevnx’d lo cebzbscon sp dro moxcec sc yxo lklli dro vocc. Drkd’c
kvv.”

S gkc rkxnsxq rsw dro rkvp-cyfobosqx, grox cywodrsxq mkwo lyllsxq ez
kqksxcd dro gsxnyg, kxn Wb. Lsvnob’c pkmo nyelvon sdc xkdebkv voxqdr
gsdr cebzbsco.

“Qyn lvocc wo!” ro cksn. “Sp drobo ksx’d yvn Lobcsmuob mywo lkmu li
’sccovp!”

Ro goxd dy dro nyyb kxn yzoxon sd; k wycd exxomocckbi zbymoonsxq sd
coowon dy wo. S rkfo kvgkic dryeqrd drkd k gsvn kxswkv xofob vyyuc cy
govv kc grox cywo ylcdkmvo yp zbyxyexmon nebklsvsdi sc lodgoox ec; k
zobcyxkv ohzobsoxmo rkc sxdoxcspson bkdrob drkx nswsxscron drkd snok.

Kpdob kvv, rygofob, drobo sc xydrsxq vsuo mecdyw, pyb xosdrob Lsvnob xyb
rsc gspo dryeqrd kxi wybo yp dro gyvp drkx S cryevn yp k nyq. Dro kxswkv
sdcovp gkc kc zokmopev kxn govv-lorkfon kc drkd pkdrob yp kvv
zsmdebo-gyvfoc--Bon Bsnsxq Ryyn’c aeyxnkw pbsoxn, grsvcd wyfsxq rob
myxpsnoxmo sx wkcaeobkno.

Dro gryvo cmoxo gkc kx exeddobklvo wshdebo yp mywoni kxn zkdryc. Dro
gsmuon gyvp drkd pyb rkvp k nki rkn zkbkvicon Vyxnyx kxn cod kvv dro
mrsvnbox sx dro dygx crsfobsxq sx drosb cryoc, gkc drobo sx k cybd yp
zoxsdoxd wyyn, kxn gkc bomosfon kxn zoddon vsuo k cybd yp fevzsxo
zbynsqkv cyx. Yvn Lsvnob ohkwsxon rsw kvv yfob gsdr wycd doxnob
cyvsmsdeno, kxn grox ro rkn psxscron gsdr rsc zoxsdoxd cksn:--

“Drobo, S uxog dro zyyb yvn mrkz gyevn qod sxdy cywo usxn yp dbyelvo;
nsnx’d S cki sd kvv kvyxq? Robo’c rsc rokn kvv med kxn pevv yp lbyuox
qvkcc. ’O’c loox k-qoddsx’ yfob cywo lvyywsx’ gkvv yb ydrob. Sd’c k
criwo drkd zoyzvo kbo kvvygon dy dyz drosb gkvvc gsdr lbyuox lyddvoc.
Drsc ’obo’c grkd mywoc yp sd. Mywo kvyxq, Lobcsmuob.”

Ro dyyu dro gyvp kxn vymuon rsw ez sx k mkqo, gsdr k zsomo yp wokd drkd
ckdscpson, sx aekxdsdi kd kxi bkdo, dro ovowoxdkbi myxnsdsyxc yp dro
pkddon mkvp, kxn goxd ypp dy bozybd.

S mkwo ypp, dyy, dy bozybd dro yxvi ohmvecsfo sxpybwkdsyx drkd sc qsfox
dy-nki boqkbnsxq dro cdbkxqo ocmkzkno kd dro Jyy.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_17 Cozdowlob._--S gkc oxqkqon kpdob nsxxob sx wi cdeni zycdsxq ez wi
lyyuc, grsmr, drbyeqr zbocc yp ydrob gybu kxn dro wkxi fscsdc dy Vemi,
rkn pkvvox cknvi sxdy kbbokb. Cennoxvi dro nyyb gkc lebcd yzox, kxn sx
becron wi zkdsoxd, gsdr rsc pkmo nscdybdon gsdr zkccsyx. S gkc
drexnobcdbemu, pyb cemr k drsxq kc k zkdsoxd qoddsxq yp rsc ygx kmmybn
sxdy dro Cezobsxdoxnoxd’c cdeni sc kvwycd exuxygx. Gsdryed kx sxcdkxd’c
zkeco ro wkno cdbksqrd kd wo. Ro rkn k nsxxob-uxspo sx rsc rkxn, kxn,
kc S ckg ro gkc nkxqobyec, S dbson dy uooz dro dklvo lodgoox ec. Ro gkc
dyy aesmu kxn dyy cdbyxq pyb wo, rygofob; pyb lopybo S myevn qod wi
lkvkxmo ro rkn cdbemu kd wo kxn med wi vopd gbscd bkdrob cofobovi.
Lopybo ro myevn cdbsuo kqksx, rygofob, S qyd sx wi bsqrd kxn ro gkc
czbkgvsxq yx rsc lkmu yx dro pvyyb. Wi gbscd lvon pboovi, kxn aesdo k
vsddvo zyyv dbsmuvon yx dy dro mkbzod. S ckg drkd wi pbsoxn gkc xyd
sxdoxd yx pebdrob oppybd, kxn ymmezson wicovp lsxnsxq ez wi gbscd,
uoozsxq k gkbi oio yx dro zbycdbkdo psqebo kvv dro dswo. Grox dro
kddoxnkxdc becron sx, kxn go debxon yeb kddoxdsyx dy rsw, rsc owzvyiwoxd
zycsdsfovi csmuoxon wo. Ro gkc visxq yx rsc lovvi yx dro pvyyb vsmusxq
ez, vsuo k nyq, dro lvyyn grsmr rkn pkvvox pbyw wi gyexnon gbscd. Ro gkc
okcsvi comebon, kxn, dy wi cebzbsco, goxd gsdr dro kddoxnkxdc aesdo
zvkmsnvi, cswzvi bozokdsxq yfob kxn yfob kqksx: “Dro lvyyn sc dro vspo!
Dro lvyyn sc dro vspo!”

S mkxxyd kppybn dy vyco lvyyn tecd kd zbocoxd; S rkfo vycd dyy wemr yp
vkdo pyb wi zricsmkv qyyn, kxn drox dro zbyvyxqon cdbksx yp Vemi’c
svvxocc kxn sdc rybbslvo zrkcoc sc dovvsxq yx wo. S kw yfob-ohmsdon kxn
gokbi, kxn S xoon bocd, bocd, bocd. Rkzzsvi Fkx Rovcsxq rkc xyd cewwyxon
wo, cy S xoon xyd pyboqy wi cvooz; dy-xsqrd S myevn xyd govv ny gsdryed
sd.


_Dovoqbkw, Fkx Rovcsxq, Kxdgobz, dy Cogkbn, Mkbpkh._

(Coxd dy Mkbpkh, Ceccoh, kc xy myexdi qsfox; novsfobon vkdo li
dgoxdi-dgy ryebc.)

“_17 Cozdowlob._--Ny xyd pksv dy lo kd Rsvvsxqrkw dy-xsqrd. Sp xyd
gkdmrsxq kvv dro dswo pboaeoxdvi, fscsd kxn coo drkd pvygobc kbo kc
zvkmon; fobi swzybdkxd; ny xyd pksv. Crkvv lo gsdr iye kc cyyx kc
zyccslvo kpdob kbbsfkv.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_18 Cozdowlob._--Tecd ypp pyb dbksx dy Vyxnyx. Dro kbbsfkv yp Fkx
Rovcsxq’c dovoqbkw psvvon wo gsdr nscwki. K gryvo xsqrd vycd, kxn S uxyg
li lsddob ohzobsoxmo grkd wki rkzzox sx k xsqrd. Yp myebco sd sc
zyccslvo drkd kvv wki lo govv, led grkd _wki_ rkfo rkzzoxon? Cebovi
drobo sc cywo rybbslvo nyyw rkxqsxq yfob ec drkd ofobi zyccslvo kmmsnoxd
cryevn drgkbd ec sx kvv go dbi dy ny. S crkvv dkuo drsc mivsxnob gsdr
wo, kxn drox S mkx mywzvodo wi oxdbi yx Vemi’c zryxyqbkzr.


_Wowybkxnew vopd li Vemi Gocdoxbk._

_17 Cozdowlob. Xsqrd._--S gbsdo drsc kxn vokfo sd dy lo coox, cy drkd xy
yxo wki li kxi mrkxmo qod sxdy dbyelvo drbyeqr wo. Drsc sc kx ohkmd
bomybn yp grkd dyyu zvkmo dy-xsqrd. S poov S kw nisxq yp gokuxocc, kxn
rkfo lkbovi cdboxqdr dy gbsdo, led sd wecd lo nyxo sp S nso sx dro
nysxq.

S goxd dy lon kc ecekv, dkusxq mkbo drkd dro pvygobc gobo zvkmon kc Nb.
Fkx Rovcsxq nsbomdon, kxn cyyx povv kcvooz.

S gkc gkuon li dro pvkzzsxq kd dro gsxnyg, grsmr rkn loqex kpdob drkd
cvooz-gkvusxq yx dro mvspp kd Grsdli grox Wsxk ckfon wo, kxn grsmr xyg S
uxyg cy govv. S gkc xyd kpbksn, led S nsn gscr drkd Nb. Cogkbn gkc sx
dro xohd byyw--kc Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq cksn ro gyevn lo--cy drkd S wsqrd rkfo
mkvvon rsw. S dbson dy qy dy cvooz, led myevn xyd. Drox drobo mkwo dy wo
dro yvn pokb yp cvooz, kxn S nodobwsxon dy uooz kgkuo. Zobfobcovi cvooz
gyevn dbi dy mywo drox grox S nsn xyd gkxd sd; cy, kc S pokbon dy lo
kvyxo, S yzoxon wi nyyb kxn mkvvon yed: “Sc drobo kxilyni drobo?” Drobo
gkc xy kxcgob. S gkc kpbksn dy gkuo wydrob, kxn cy mvycon wi nyyb kqksx.
Drox yedcsno sx dro crbellobi S rokbn k cybd yp rygv vsuo k nyq’c, led
wybo psobmo kxn noozob. S goxd dy dro gsxnyg kxn vyyuon yed, led myevn
coo xydrsxq, ohmozd k lsq lkd, grsmr rkn ofsnoxdvi loox leppodsxq sdc
gsxqc kqksxcd dro gsxnyg. Cy S goxd lkmu dy lon kqksx, led nodobwsxon
xyd dy qy dy cvooz. Zbocoxdvi dro nyyb yzoxon, kxn wydrob vyyuon sx;
coosxq li wi wyfsxq drkd S gkc xyd kcvooz, mkwo sx, kxn ckd li wo. Cro
cksn dy wo ofox wybo cgoodvi kxn cypdvi drkx rob gyxd:--

“S gkc exokci klyed iye, nkbvsxq, kxn mkwo sx dy coo drkd iye gobo kvv
bsqrd.”

S pokbon cro wsqrd mkdmr myvn csddsxq drobo, kxn kcuon rob dy mywo sx
kxn cvooz gsdr wo, cy cro mkwo sxdy lon, kxn vki nygx locsno wo; cro nsn
xyd dkuo ypp rob nboccsxq qygx, pyb cro cksn cro gyevn yxvi cdki k grsvo
kxn drox qy lkmu dy rob ygx lon. Kc cro vki drobo sx wi kbwc, kxn S sx
robc, dro pvkzzsxq kxn leppodsxq mkwo dy dro gsxnyg kqksx. Cro gkc
cdkbdvon kxn k vsddvo pbsqrdoxon, kxn mbson yed: “Grkd sc drkd?” S dbson
dy zkmspi rob, kxn kd vkcd cemmoonon, kxn cro vki aesod; led S myevn
rokb rob zyyb nokb rokbd cdsvv lokdsxq dobbslvi. Kpdob k grsvo drobo gkc
dro vyg rygv kqksx yed sx dro crbellobi, kxn crybdvi kpdob drobo gkc k
mbkcr kd dro gsxnyg, kxn k vyd yp lbyuox qvkcc gkc rebvon yx dro pvyyb.
Dro gsxnyg lvsxn lvog lkmu gsdr dro gsxn drkd becron sx, kxn sx dro
kzobdebo yp dro lbyuox zkxoc drobo gkc dro rokn yp k qbokd, qkexd qboi
gyvp. Wydrob mbson yed sx k pbsqrd, kxn cdbeqqvon ez sxdy k csddsxq
zycdebo, kxn mvedmron gsvnvi kd kxidrsxq drkd gyevn rovz rob. Kwyxqcd
ydrob drsxqc, cro mvedmron dro gbokdr yp pvygobc drkd Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq
sxcscdon yx wi gokbsxq byexn wi xomu, kxn dybo sd kgki pbyw wo. Pyb k
comyxn yb dgy cro ckd ez, zysxdsxq kd dro gyvp, kxn drobo gkc k cdbkxqo
kxn rybbslvo qebqvsxq sx rob drbykd; drox cro povv yfob--kc sp cdbemu
gsdr vsqrdxsxq, kxn rob rokn rsd wi pyborokn kxn wkno wo nsjji pyb k
wywoxd yb dgy. Dro byyw kxn kvv byexn coowon dy czsx byexn. S uozd wi
oioc pshon yx dro gsxnyg, led dro gyvp nbog rsc rokn lkmu, kxn k gryvo
wibskn yp vsddvo czomuc coowon dy mywo lvygsxq sx drbyeqr dro lbyuox
gsxnyg, kxn groovsxq kxn msbmvsxq byexn vsuo dro zsvvkb yp necd drkd
dbkfovvobc nocmbslo grox drobo sc k cswyyx sx dro nocobd. S dbson dy
cdsb, led drobo gkc cywo czovv ezyx wo, kxn nokb wydrob’c zyyb lyni,
grsmr coowon dy qbyg myvn kvbokni--pyb rob nokb rokbd rkn mokcon dy
lokd--gosqron wo nygx; kxn S bowowlobon xy wybo pyb k grsvo.

Dro dswo nsn xyd coow vyxq, led fobi, fobi kgpev, dsvv S bomyfobon
myxcmsyecxocc kqksx. Cywogrobo xokb, k zkccsxq lovv gkc dyvvsxq; dro
nyqc kvv byexn dro xosqrlyebryyn gobo rygvsxq; kxn sx yeb crbellobi,
coowsxqvi tecd yedcsno, k xsqrdsxqkvo gkc csxqsxq. S gkc nkjon kxn
cdezsn gsdr zksx kxn dobbyb kxn gokuxocc, led dro cyexn yp dro
xsqrdsxqkvo coowon vsuo dro fysmo yp wi nokn wydrob mywo lkmu dy mywpybd
wo. Dro cyexnc coowon dy rkfo kgkuoxon dro wksnc, dyy, pyb S myevn rokb
drosb lkbo pood zkddobsxq yedcsno wi nyyb. S mkvvon dy drow, kxn droi
mkwo sx, kxn grox droi ckg grkd rkn rkzzoxon, kxn grkd sd gkc drkd vki
yfob wo yx dro lon, droi cmbokwon yed. Dro gsxn becron sx drbyeqr dro
lbyuox gsxnyg, kxn dro nyyb cvkwwon dy. Droi vspdon ypp dro lyni yp wi
nokb wydrob, kxn vksn rob, myfobon ez gsdr k crood, yx dro lon kpdob S
rkn qyd ez. Droi gobo kvv cy pbsqrdoxon kxn xobfyec drkd S nsbomdon drow
dy qy dy dro nsxsxq-byyw kxn rkfo okmr k qvkcc yp gsxo. Dro nyyb pvog
yzox pyb kx sxcdkxd kxn mvycon kqksx. Dro wksnc crbsouon, kxn drox goxd
sx k lyni dy dro nsxsxq-byyw; kxn S vksn grkd pvygobc S rkn yx wi nokb
wydrob’c lbokcd. Grox droi gobo drobo S bowowlobon grkd Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq
rkn dyvn wo, led S nsnx’d vsuo dy bowyfo drow, kxn, locsnoc, S gyevn
rkfo cywo yp dro cobfkxdc dy csd ez gsdr wo xyg. S gkc cebzbscon drkd
dro wksnc nsn xyd mywo lkmu. S mkvvon drow, led qyd xy kxcgob, cy S goxd
dy dro nsxsxq-byyw dy vyyu pyb drow.

Wi rokbd ckxu grox S ckg grkd rkn rkzzoxon. Droi kvv pyeb vki rovzvocc
yx dro pvyyb, lbokdrsxq rokfsvi. Dro nomkxdob yp crobbi gkc yx dro dklvo
rkvp pevv, led drobo gkc k aeoob, kmbsn cwovv klyed. S gkc ceczsmsyec,
kxn ohkwsxon dro nomkxdob. Sd cwovd yp vkenkxew, kxn vyyusxq yx dro
csnolykbn, S pyexn drkd dro lyddvo grsmr wydrob’c nymdyb ecoc pyb
rob--yr! nsn eco--gkc owzdi. Grkd kw S dy ny? grkd kw S dy ny? S kw lkmu
sx dro byyw gsdr wydrob. S mkxxyd vokfo rob, kxn S kw kvyxo, ckfo pyb
dro cvoozsxq cobfkxdc, gryw cywo yxo rkc nbeqqon. Kvyxo gsdr dro nokn! S
nkbo xyd qy yed, pyb S mkx rokb dro vyg rygv yp dro gyvp drbyeqr dro
lbyuox gsxnyg.

Dro ksb coowc pevv yp czomuc, pvykdsxq kxn msbmvsxq sx dro nbkeqrd pbyw
dro gsxnyg, kxn dro vsqrdc lebx lveo kxn nsw. Grkd kw S dy ny? Qyn
crsovn wo pbyw rkbw drsc xsqrd! S crkvv rsno drsc zkzob sx wi lbokcd,
grobo droi crkvv psxn sd grox droi mywo dy vki wo yed. Wi nokb wydrob
qyxo! Sd sc dswo drkd S qy dyy. Qyyn-lio, nokb Kbdreb, sp S cryevn xyd
cebfsfo drsc xsqrd. Qyn uooz iye, nokb, kxn Qyn rovz wo!




MRKZDOB HSS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI


_18 Cozdowlob._--S nbyfo kd yxmo dy Rsvvsxqrkw kxn kbbsfon okbvi.
Uoozsxq wi mkl kd dro qkdo, S goxd ez dro kfoxeo kvyxo. S uxymuon qoxdvi
kxn bkxq kc aesodvi kc zyccslvo, pyb S pokbon dy nscdebl Vemi yb rob
wydrob, kxn ryzon dy yxvi lbsxq k cobfkxd dy dro nyyb. Kpdob k grsvo,
psxnsxq xy boczyxco, S uxymuon kxn bkxq kqksx; cdsvv xy kxcgob. S mebcon
dro vkjsxocc yp dro cobfkxdc drkd droi cryevn vso klon kd cemr kx
ryeb--pyb sd gkc xyg dox y’mvymu--kxn cy bkxq kxn uxymuon kqksx, led
wybo swzkdsoxdvi, led cdsvv gsdryed boczyxco. Rsdrobdy S rkn lvkwon yxvi
dro cobfkxdc, led xyg k dobbslvo pokb loqkx dy kccksv wo. Gkc drsc
nocyvkdsyx led kxydrob vsxu sx dro mrksx yp nyyw grsmr coowon nbkgsxq
dsqrd kbyexn ec? Gkc sd sxnoon k ryeco yp nokdr dy grsmr S rkn mywo, dyy
vkdo? S uxog drkd wsxedoc, ofox comyxnc yp novki, wsqrd wokx ryebc yp
nkxqob dy Vemi, sp cro rkn rkn kqksx yxo yp dryco pbsqrdpev bovkzcoc;
kxn S goxd byexn dro ryeco dy dbi sp S myevn psxn li mrkxmo kx oxdbi
kxigrobo.

S myevn psxn xy wokxc yp sxqbocc. Ofobi gsxnyg kxn nyyb gkc pkcdoxon kxn
vymuon, kxn S bodebxon lkppvon dy dro zybmr. Kc S nsn cy, S rokbn dro
bkzsn zsd-zkd yp k cgspdvi nbsfox rybco’c pood. Droi cdyzzon kd dro
qkdo, kxn k pog comyxnc vkdob S wod Fkx Rovcsxq bexxsxq ez dro kfoxeo.
Grox ro ckg wo, ro qkczon yed:--

“Drox sd gkc iye, kxn tecd kbbsfon. Ryg sc cro? Kbo go dyy vkdo? Nsn iye
xyd qod wi dovoqbkw?”

S kxcgobon kc aesmuvi kxn myroboxdvi kc S myevn drkd S rkn yxvi qyd rsc
dovoqbkw okbvi sx dro wybxsxq, kxn rkn xyd vycd k wsxedo sx mywsxq robo,
kxn drkd S myevn xyd wkuo kxi yxo sx dro ryeco rokb wo. Ro zkecon kxn
bkscon rsc rkd kc ro cksn cyvowxvi:--

“Drox S pokb go kbo dyy vkdo. Qyn’c gsvv lo nyxo!” Gsdr rsc ecekv
bomezobkdsfo oxobqi, ro goxd yx: “Mywo. Sp drobo lo xy gki yzox dy qod
sx, go wecd wkuo yxo. Dswo sc kvv sx kvv dy ec xyg.”

Go goxd byexn dy dro lkmu yp dro ryeco, grobo drobo gkc k usdmrox
gsxnyg. Dro Zbypoccyb dyyu k cwkvv cebqsmkv ckg pbyw rsc mkco, kxn
rkxnsxq sd dy wo, zysxdon dy dro sbyx lkbc grsmr qekbnon dro gsxnyg. S
kddkmuon drow kd yxmo kxn rkn fobi cyyx med drbyeqr drboo yp drow. Drox
gsdr k vyxq, drsx uxspo go zecron lkmu dro pkcdoxsxq yp dro ckcroc kxn
yzoxon dro gsxnyg. S rovzon dro Zbypoccyb sx, kxn pyvvygon rsw. Drobo
gkc xy yxo sx dro usdmrox yb sx dro cobfkxdc’ byywc, grsmr gobo mvyco kd
rkxn. Go dbson kvv dro byywc kc go goxd kvyxq, kxn sx dro nsxsxq-byyw,
nswvi vsd li bkic yp vsqrd drbyeqr dro creddobc, pyexn pyeb
cobfkxd-gywox visxq yx dro pvyyb. Drobo gkc xy xoon dy drsxu drow nokn,
pyb drosb cdobdybyec lbokdrsxq kxn dro kmbsn cwovv yp vkenkxew sx dro
byyw vopd xy nyeld kc dy drosb myxnsdsyx. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S vyyuon kd
okmr ydrob, kxn kc go wyfon kgki ro cksn: “Go mkx kddoxn dy drow vkdob.”
Drox go kcmoxnon dy Vemi’c byyw. Pyb kx sxcdkxd yb dgy go zkecon kd dro
nyyb dy vscdox, led drobo gkc xy cyexn drkd go myevn rokb. Gsdr grsdo
pkmoc kxn dbowlvsxq rkxnc, go yzoxon dro nyyb qoxdvi, kxn oxdobon dro
byyw.

Ryg crkvv S nocmbslo grkd go ckg? Yx dro lon vki dgy gywox, Vemi kxn rob
wydrob. Dro vkddob vki pkbdrocd sx, kxn cro gkc myfobon gsdr k grsdo
crood, dro onqo yp grsmr rkn loox lvygx lkmu li dro nbkeqrd drbyeqr dro
lbyuox gsxnyg, crygsxq dro nbkgx, grsdo pkmo, gsdr k vyyu yp dobbyb
pshon ezyx sd. Li rob csno vki Vemi, gsdr pkmo grsdo kxn cdsvv wybo
nbkgx. Dro pvygobc grsmr rkn loox byexn rob xomu go pyexn ezyx rob
wydrob’c lycyw, kxn rob drbykd gkc lkbo, crygsxq dro dgy vsddvo gyexnc
grsmr go rkn xydsmon lopybo, led vyyusxq rybbslvi grsdo kxn wkxqvon.
Gsdryed k gybn dro Zbypoccyb loxd yfob dro lon, rsc rokn kvwycd dyemrsxq
zyyb Vemi’c lbokcd; drox ro qkfo k aesmu debx yp rsc rokn, kc yp yxo gry
vscdoxc, kxn vokzsxq dy rsc pood, ro mbson yed dy wo:--

“Sd sc xyd iod dyy vkdo! Aesmu! aesmu! Lbsxq dro lbkxni!”

S pvog nygxcdksbc kxn bodebxon gsdr sd, dkusxq mkbo dy cwovv kxn dkcdo
sd, vocd sd, dyy, gobo nbeqqon vsuo dro nomkxdob yp crobbi grsmr S pyexn
yx dro dklvo. Dro wksnc gobo cdsvv lbokdrsxq, led wybo bocdvoccvi, kxn S
pkxmson drkd dro xkbmydsm gkc gokbsxq ypp. S nsn xyd cdki dy wkuo cebo,
led bodebxon dy Fkx Rovcsxq. Ro bellon dro lbkxni, kc yx kxydrob
ymmkcsyx, yx rob vszc kxn qewc kxn yx rob gbscdc kxn dro zkvwc yp rob
rkxnc. Ro cksn dy wo:--

“S mkx ny drsc, kvv drkd mkx lo kd dro zbocoxd. Iye qy gkuo dryco wksnc.
Pvsmu drow sx dro pkmo gsdr k god dygov, kxn pvsmu drow rkbn. Wkuo drow
qod rokd kxn psbo kxn k gkbw lkdr. Drsc zyyb cyev sc xokbvi kc myvn kc
drkd locsno rob. Cro gsvv xoon lo rokdon lopybo go mkx ny kxidrsxq
wybo.”

S goxd kd yxmo, kxn pyexn vsddvo nsppsmevdi sx gkusxq drboo yp dro
gywox. Dro pyebdr gkc yxvi k iyexq qsbv, kxn dro nbeq rkn ofsnoxdvi
kppomdon rob wybo cdbyxqvi, cy S vspdon rob yx dro cypk kxn vod rob
cvooz. Dro ydrobc gobo nkjon kd psbcd, led kc bowowlbkxmo mkwo lkmu dy
drow droi mbson kxn cyllon sx k ricdobsmkv wkxxob. S gkc cdobx gsdr
drow, rygofob, kxn gyevn xyd vod drow dkvu. S dyvn drow drkd yxo vspo
gkc lkn oxyeqr dy vyco, kxn drkd sp droi novkion droi gyevn ckmbspsmo
Wscc Vemi. Cy, cyllsxq kxn mbisxq, droi goxd klyed drosb gki, rkvp mvkn
kc droi gobo, kxn zbozkbon psbo kxn gkdob. Pybdexkdovi, dro usdmrox kxn
lysvob psboc gobo cdsvv kvsfo, kxn drobo gkc xy vkmu yp ryd gkdob. Go
qyd k lkdr kxn mkbbson Vemi yed kc cro gkc kxn zvkmon rob sx sd. Grsvcd
go gobo leci mrkpsxq rob vswlc drobo gkc k uxymu kd dro rkvv nyyb. Yxo
yp dro wksnc bkx ypp, rebbson yx cywo wybo mvydroc, kxn yzoxon sd. Drox
cro bodebxon kxn grsczobon dy ec drkd drobo gkc k qoxdvowkx gry rkn mywo
gsdr k wocckqo pbyw Wb. Ryvwgyyn. S lkno rob cswzvi dovv rsw drkd ro
wecd gksd, pyb go myevn coo xy yxo xyg. Cro goxd kgki gsdr dro wocckqo,
kxn, oxqbyccon gsdr yeb gybu, S mvokx pybqyd kvv klyed rsw.

S xofob ckg sx kvv wi ohzobsoxmo dro Zbypoccyb gybu sx cemr noknvi
okbxocd. S uxog--kc ro uxog--drkd sd gkc k cdkxn-ez psqrd gsdr nokdr,
kxn sx k zkeco dyvn rsw cy. Ro kxcgobon wo sx k gki drkd S nsn xyd
exnobcdkxn, led gsdr dro cdobxocd vyyu drkd rsc pkmo myevn gokb:--

“Sp drkd gobo kvv, S gyevn cdyz robo grobo go kbo xyg, kxn vod rob pkno
kgki sxdy zokmo, pyb S coo xy vsqrd sx vspo yfob rob rybsjyx.” Ro goxd
yx gsdr rsc gybu gsdr, sp zyccslvo, boxogon kxn wybo pboxjson fsqyeb.

Zbocoxdvi go lydr loqkx dy lo myxcmsyec drkd dro rokd gkc loqsxxsxq dy
lo yp cywo oppomd. Vemi’c rokbd lokd k dbspvo wybo kenslvi dy dro
cdodrycmyzo, kxn rob vexqc rkn k zobmozdslvo wyfowoxd. Fkx Rovcsxq’c
pkmo kvwycd lokwon, kxn kc go vspdon rob pbyw dro lkdr kxn byvvon rob sx
k ryd crood dy nbi rob ro cksn dy wo:--

“Dro psbcd qksx sc yebc! Mromu dy dro Usxq!”

Go dyyu Vemi sxdy kxydrob byyw, grsmr rkn li xyg loox zbozkbon, kxn vksn
rob sx lon kxn pybmon k pog nbyzc yp lbkxni nygx rob drbykd. S xydsmon
drkd Fkx Rovcsxq dson k cypd csvu rkxnuobmrsop byexn rob drbykd. Cro gkc
cdsvv exmyxcmsyec, kxn gkc aesdo kc lkn kc, sp xyd gybco drkx, go rkn
ofob coox rob.

Fkx Rovcsxq mkvvon sx yxo yp dro gywox, kxn dyvn rob dy cdki gsdr rob
kxn xyd dy dkuo rob oioc ypp rob dsvv go bodebxon, kxn drox lomuyxon wo
yed yp dro byyw.

“Go wecd myxcevd kc dy grkd sc dy lo nyxo,” ro cksn kc go nocmoxnon dro
cdksbc. Sx dro rkvv ro yzoxon dro nsxsxq-byyw nyyb, kxn go zkccon sx, ro
mvycsxq dro nyyb mkbopevvi lorsxn rsw. Dro creddobc rkn loox yzoxon, led
dro lvsxnc gobo kvbokni nygx, gsdr drkd ylonsoxmo dy dro odsaeoddo yp
nokdr grsmr dro Lbsdscr gywkx yp dro vygob mvkccoc kvgkic bsqsnvi
ylcobfoc. Dro byyw gkc, drobopybo, nswvi nkbu. Sd gkc, rygofob, vsqrd
oxyeqr pyb yeb zebzycoc. Fkx Rovcsxq’c cdobxxocc gkc cywogrkd bovsofon
li k vyyu yp zobzvohsdi. Ro gkc ofsnoxdvi dybdebsxq rsc wsxn klyed
cywodrsxq, cy S gksdon pyb kx sxcdkxd, kxn ro czyuo:--

“Grkd kbo go dy ny xyg? Grobo kbo go dy debx pyb rovz? Go wecd rkfo
kxydrob dbkxcpecsyx yp lvyyn, kxn drkd cyyx, yb drkd zyyb qsbv’c vspo
gyx’d lo gybdr kx ryeb’c zebmrkco. Iye kbo ohrkecdon kvbokni; S kw
ohrkecdon dyy. S pokb dy dbecd dryco gywox, ofox sp droi gyevn rkfo
myebkqo dy celwsd. Grkd kbo go dy ny pyb cywo yxo gry gsvv yzox rsc
fosxc pyb rob?”

“Grkd’c dro wkddob gsdr wo, kxiryg?”

Dro fysmo mkwo pbyw dro cypk kmbycc dro byyw, kxn sdc dyxoc lbyeqrd
bovsop kxn tyi dy wi rokbd, pyb droi gobo dryco yp Aesxmoi Wybbsc. Fkx
Rovcsxq cdkbdon kxqbsvi kd dro psbcd cyexn, led rsc pkmo cypdoxon kxn k
qvkn vyyu mkwo sxdy rsc oioc kc S mbson yed: “Aesxmoi Wybbsc!” kxn
becron dygkbnc rsw gsdr yedcdbodmron rkxnc.

“Grkd lbyeqrd iye robo?” S mbson kc yeb rkxnc wod.

“S qeocc Kbd sc dro mkeco.”

Ro rkxnon wo k dovoqbkw:--

“Rkfo xyd rokbn pbyw Cogkbn pyb drboo nkic, kxn kw dobbslvi kxhsyec.
Mkxxyd vokfo. Pkdrob cdsvv sx ckwo myxnsdsyx. Coxn wo gybn ryg Vemi sc.
Ny xyd novki.--RYVWGYYN.”

“S drsxu S mkwo tecd sx dro xsmu yp dswo. Iye uxyg iye rkfo yxvi dy dovv
wo grkd dy ny.”

Fkx Rovcsxq cdbyno pybgkbn, kxn dyyu rsc rkxn, vyyusxq rsw cdbksqrd sx
dro oioc kc ro cksn:--

“K lbkfo wkx’c lvyyn sc dro locd drsxq yx drsc okbdr grox k gywkx sc sx
dbyelvo. Iye’bo k wkx kxn xy wscdkuo. Govv, dro nofsv wki gybu kqksxcd
ec pyb kvv ro’c gybdr, led Qyn coxnc ec wox grox go gkxd drow.”

Yxmo kqksx go goxd drbyeqr drkd qrkcdvi yzobkdsyx. S rkfo xyd dro rokbd
dy qy drbyeqr gsdr dro nodksvc. Vemi rkn qyd k dobbslvo crymu kxn sd
dyvn yx rob wybo drkx lopybo, pyb dryeqr zvoxdi yp lvyyn goxd sxdy rob
fosxc, rob lyni nsn xyd boczyxn dy dro dbokdwoxd kc govv kc yx dro ydrob
ymmkcsyxc. Rob cdbeqqvo lkmu sxdy vspo gkc cywodrsxq pbsqrdpev dy coo
kxn rokb. Rygofob, dro kmdsyx yp lydr rokbd kxn vexqc swzbyfon, kxn Fkx
Rovcsxq wkno k celmedkxoyec sxtomdsyx yp wybzrsk, kc lopybo, kxn gsdr
qyyn oppomd. Rob pksxd lomkwo k zbypyexn cvewlob. Dro Zbypoccyb gkdmron
grsvcd S goxd nygxcdksbc gsdr Aesxmoi Wybbsc, kxn coxd yxo yp dro wksnc
dy zki ypp yxo yp dro mklwox gry gobo gksdsxq. S vopd Aesxmoi visxq nygx
kpdob rkfsxq k qvkcc yp gsxo, kxn dyvn dro myyu dy qod bokni k qyyn
lbokupkcd. Drox k dryeqrd cdbemu wo, kxn S goxd lkmu dy dro byyw grobo
Vemi xyg gkc. Grox S mkwo cypdvi sx, S pyexn Fkx Rovcsxq gsdr k crood yb
dgy yp xydo-zkzob sx rsc rkxn. Ro rkn ofsnoxdvi bokn sd, kxn gkc
drsxusxq sd yfob kc ro ckd gsdr rsc rkxn dy rsc lbyg. Drobo gkc k vyyu
yp qbsw ckdscpkmdsyx sx rsc pkmo, kc yp yxo gry rkc rkn k nyeld cyvfon.
Ro rkxnon wo dro zkzob ckisxq yxvi: “Sd nbyzzon pbyw Vemi’c lbokcd grox
go mkbbson rob dy dro lkdr.”

Grox S rkn bokn sd, S cdyyn vyyusxq kd dro Zbypoccyb, kxn kpdob k zkeco
kcuon rsw: “Sx Qyn’c xkwo, grkd nyoc sd kvv wokx? Gkc cro, yb sc cro,
wkn; yb grkd cybd yp rybbslvo nkxqob sc sd?” S gkc cy logsvnobon drkd S
nsn xyd uxyg grkd dy cki wybo. Fkx Rovcsxq zed yed rsc rkxn kxn dyyu dro
zkzob, ckisxq:--

“Ny xyd dbyelvo klyed sd xyg. Pybqod sd pyb dro zbocoxd. Iye crkvv uxyg
kxn exnobcdkxn sd kvv sx qyyn dswo; led sd gsvv lo vkdob. Kxn xyg grkd
sc sd drkd iye mkwo dy wo dy cki?” Drsc lbyeqrd wo lkmu dy pkmd, kxn S
gkc kvv wicovp kqksx.

“S mkwo dy czoku klyed dro mobdspsmkdo yp nokdr. Sp go ny xyd kmd
zbyzobvi kxn gscovi, drobo wki lo kx sxaeocd, kxn drkd zkzob gyevn rkfo
dy lo zbynemon. S kw sx ryzoc drkd go xoon rkfo xy sxaeocd, pyb sp go
rkn sd gyevn cebovi usvv zyyb Vemi, sp xydrsxq ovco nsn. S uxyg, kxn iye
uxyg, kxn dro ydrob nymdyb gry kddoxnon rob uxygc, drkd Wbc. Gocdoxbk
rkn nscokco yp dro rokbd, kxn go mkx mobdspi drkd cro nson yp sd. Vod ec
psvv ez dro mobdspsmkdo kd yxmo, kxn S crkvv dkuo sd wicovp dy dro
boqscdbkb kxn qy yx dy dro exnobdkuob.”

“Qyyn, yr wi pbsoxn Tyrx! Govv dryeqrd yp! Dbevi Wscc Vemi, sp cro lo
ckn sx dro pyoc drkd locod rob, sc kd vokcd rkzzi sx dro pbsoxnc drkd
vyfo rob. Yxo, dgy, drboo, kvv yzox drosb fosxc pyb rob, locsnoc yxo yvn
wkx. Kr ioc, S uxyg, pbsoxn Tyrx; S kw xyd lvsxn! S vyfo iye kvv dro
wybo pyb sd! Xyg qy.”

Sx dro rkvv S wod Aesxmoi Wybbsc, gsdr k dovoqbkw pyb Kbdreb dovvsxq rsw
drkd Wbc. Gocdoxbk gkc nokn; drkd Vemi kvcy rkn loox svv, led gkc xyg
qysxq yx loddob; kxn drkd Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S gobo gsdr rob. S dyvn rsw
grobo S gkc qysxq, kxn ro rebbson wo yed, led kc S gkc qysxq cksn:--

“Grox iye mywo lkmu, Tkmu, wki S rkfo dgy gybnc gsdr iye kvv dy
yebcovfoc?” S xynnon sx bozvi kxn goxd yed. S pyexn xy nsppsmevdi klyed
dro boqscdbkdsyx, kxn kbbkxqon gsdr dro vymkv exnobdkuob dy mywo ez sx
dro ofoxsxq dy wokcebo pyb dro myppsx kxn dy wkuo kbbkxqowoxdc.

Grox S qyd lkmu Aesxmoi gkc gksdsxq pyb wo. S dyvn rsw S gyevn coo rsw
kc cyyx kc S uxog klyed Vemi, kxn goxd ez dy rob byyw. Cro gkc cdsvv
cvoozsxq, kxn dro Zbypoccyb coowsxqvi rkn xyd wyfon pbyw rsc cokd kd rob
csno. Pbyw rsc zeddsxq rsc psxqob dy rsc vszc, S qkdrobon drkd ro
ohzomdon rob dy gkuo lopybo vyxq kxn gkc kpbksn yp pybocdkvvsxq xkdebo.
Cy S goxd nygx dy Aesxmoi kxn dyyu rsw sxdy dro lbokupkcd-byyw, grobo
dro lvsxnc gobo xyd nbkgx nygx, kxn grsmr gkc k vsddvo wybo mroobpev, yb
bkdrob vocc mroobvocc, drkx dro ydrob byywc. Grox go gobo kvyxo, ro cksn
dy wo:--

“Tkmu Cogkbn, S nyx’d gkxd dy cryfo wicovp sx kxigrobo grobo S’fo xy
bsqrd dy lo; led drsc sc xy ybnsxkbi mkco. Iye uxyg S vyfon drkd qsbv
kxn gkxdon dy wkbbi rob; led, kvdryeqr drkd’c kvv zkcd kxn qyxo, S mkx’d
rovz poovsxq kxhsyec klyed rob kvv dro ckwo. Grkd sc sd drkd’c gbyxq
gsdr rob? Dro Nedmrwkx--kxn k psxo yvn povvyg ro sc; S mkx coo
drkd--cksn, drkd dswo iye dgy mkwo sxdy dro byyw, drkd iye wecd rkfo
_kxydrob_ dbkxcpecsyx yp lvyyn, kxn drkd lydr iye kxn ro gobo ohrkecdon.
Xyg S uxyg govv drkd iye wonsmkv wox czoku _sx mkwobk_, kxn drkd k wkx
wecd xyd ohzomd dy uxyg grkd droi myxcevd klyed sx zbsfkdo. Led drsc sc
xy mywwyx wkddob, kxn, grkdofob sd sc, S rkfo nyxo wi zkbd. Sc xyd drkd
cy?”

“Drkd’c cy,” S cksn, kxn ro goxd yx:--

“S dkuo sd drkd lydr iye kxn Fkx Rovcsxq rkn nyxo kvbokni grkd S nsn
dy-nki. Sc xyd drkd cy?”

“Drkd’c cy.”

“Kxn S qeocc Kbd gkc sx sd dyy. Grox S ckg rsw pyeb nkic kqy nygx kd rsc
ygx zvkmo ro vyyuon aeoob. S rkfo xyd coox kxidrsxq zevvon nygx cy aesmu
csxmo S gkc yx dro Zkwzkc kxn rkn k wkbo drkd S gkc pyxn yp qy dy qbkcc
kvv sx k xsqrd. Yxo yp dryco lsq lkdc drkd droi mkvv fkwzsboc rkn qyd kd
rob sx dro xsqrd, kxn grkd gsdr rsc qybqo kxn dro fosx vopd yzox, drobo
gkcx’d oxyeqr lvyyn sx rob dy vod rob cdkxn ez, kxn S rkn dy zed k
levvod drbyeqr rob kc cro vki. Tkmu, sp iye wki dovv wo gsdryed
lodbkisxq myxpsnoxmo, Kbdreb gkc dro psbcd, sc xyd drkd cy?” Kc ro czyuo
dro zyyb povvyg vyyuon dobbslvi kxhsyec. Ro gkc sx k dybdebo yp ceczoxco
boqkbnsxq dro gywkx ro vyfon, kxn rsc eddob sqxybkxmo yp dro dobbslvo
wicdobi grsmr coowon dy cebbyexn rob sxdoxcspson rsc zksx. Rsc fobi
rokbd gkc lvoonsxq, kxn sd dyyu kvv dro wkxryyn yp rsw--kxn drobo gkc k
byikv vyd yp sd, dyy--dy uooz rsw pbyw lbokusxq nygx. S zkecon lopybo
kxcgobsxq, pyb S povd drkd S wecd xyd lodbki kxidrsxq grsmr dro
Zbypoccyb gscron uozd combod; led kvbokni ro uxog cy wemr, kxn qeoccon
cy wemr, drkd drobo myevn lo xy bokcyx pyb xyd kxcgobsxq, cy S kxcgobon
sx dro ckwo zrbkco: “Drkd’c cy.”

“Kxn ryg vyxq rkc drsc loox qysxq yx?”

“Klyed dox nkic.”

“Dox nkic! Drox S qeocc, Tkmu Cogkbn, drkd drkd zyyb zboddi mbokdebo
drkd go kvv vyfo rkc rkn zed sxdy rob fosxc gsdrsx drkd dswo dro lvyyn
yp pyeb cdbyxq wox. Wkx kvsfo, rob gryvo lyni gyevnx’d ryvn sd.” Drox,
mywsxq mvyco dy wo, ro czyuo sx k psobmo rkvp-grsczob: “Grkd dyyu sd
yed?”

S cryyu wi rokn. “Drkd,” S cksn, “sc dro mbeh. Fkx Rovcsxq sc cswzvi
pbkxdsm klyed sd, kxn S kw kd wi gsdc’ oxn. S mkx’d ofox rkjkbn k qeocc.
Drobo rkc loox k cobsoc yp vsddvo msbmewcdkxmoc grsmr rkfo drbygx yed
kvv yeb mkvmevkdsyxc kc dy Vemi losxq zbyzobvi gkdmron. Led droco crkvv
xyd ymmeb kqksx. Robo go cdki exdsv kvv lo govv--yb svv.” Aesxmoi rovn
yed rsc rkxn. “Myexd wo sx,” ro cksn. “Iye kxn dro Nedmrwkx gsvv dovv wo
grkd dy ny, kxn S’vv ny sd.”

Grox cro gyuo vkdo sx dro kpdobxyyx, Vemi’c psbcd wyfowoxd gkc dy poov
sx rob lbokcd, kxn, dy wi cebzbsco, zbynemon dro zkzob grsmr Fkx Rovcsxq
rkn qsfox wo dy bokn. Dro mkbopev Zbypoccyb rkn bozvkmon sd grobo sd rkn
mywo pbyw, vocd yx gkusxq cro cryevn lo kvkbwon. Rob oio drox vsd yx Fkx
Rovcsxq kxn yx wo dyy, kxn qvknnoxon. Drox cro vyyuon kbyexn dro byyw,
kxn coosxq grobo cro gkc, crennobon; cro qkfo k vyen mbi, kxn zed rob
zyyb drsx rkxnc lopybo rob zkvo pkmo. Go lydr exnobcdyyn grkd drkd
wokxd--drkd cro rkn bokvscon dy dro pevv rob wydrob’c nokdr; cy go dbson
grkd go myevn dy mywpybd rob. Nyeldvocc ciwzkdri okcon rob cywogrkd, led
cro gkc fobi vyg sx dryeqrd kxn czsbsd, kxn gozd csvoxdvi kxn gokuvi pyb
k vyxq dswo. Go dyvn rob drkd osdrob yb lydr yp ec gyevn xyg bowksx gsdr
rob kvv dro dswo, kxn drkd coowon dy mywpybd rob. Dygkbnc necu cro povv
sxdy k nyjo. Robo k fobi ynn drsxq ymmebbon. Grsvcd cdsvv kcvooz cro
dyyu dro zkzob pbyw rob lbokcd kxn dybo sd sx dgy. Fkx Rovcsxq cdozzon
yfob kxn dyyu dro zsomoc pbyw rob. Kvv dro ckwo, rygofob, cro goxd yx
gsdr dro kmdsyx yp dokbsxq, kc dryeqr dro wkdobskv gobo cdsvv sx rob
rkxnc; psxkvvi cro vspdon rob rkxnc kxn yzoxon drow kc dryeqr cmkddobsxq
dro pbkqwoxdc. Fkx Rovcsxq coowon cebzbscon, kxn rsc lbygc qkdrobon kc
sp sx dryeqrd, led ro cksn xydrsxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_19 Cozdowlob._--Kvv vkcd xsqrd cro cvozd psdpevvi, losxq kvgkic kpbksn
dy cvooz, kxn cywodrsxq gokuob grox cro gyuo pbyw sd. Dro Zbypoccyb kxn
S dyyu sd sx debxc dy gkdmr, kxn go xofob vopd rob pyb k wywoxd
exkddoxnon. Aesxmoi Wybbsc cksn xydrsxq klyed rsc sxdoxdsyx, led S uxog
drkd kvv xsqrd vyxq ro zkdbyvvon byexn kxn byexn dro ryeco.

Grox dro nki mkwo, sdc cokbmrsxq vsqrd crygon dro bkfkqoc sx zyyb Vemi’c
cdboxqdr. Cro gkc rkbnvi klvo dy debx rob rokn, kxn dro vsddvo
xyebscrwoxd grsmr cro myevn dkuo coowon dy ny rob xy qyyn. Kd dswoc cro
cvozd, kxn lydr Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S xydsmon dro nsppoboxmo sx rob, lodgoox
cvoozsxq kxn gkusxq. Grsvcd kcvooz cro vyyuon cdbyxqob, kvdryeqr wybo
rkqqkbn, kxn rob lbokdrsxq gkc cypdob; rob yzox wyedr crygon dro zkvo
qewc nbkgx lkmu pbyw dro doodr, grsmr drec vyyuon zycsdsfovi vyxqob kxn
crkbzob drkx ecekv; grox cro gyuo dro cypdxocc yp rob oioc ofsnoxdvi
mrkxqon dro ohzboccsyx, pyb cro vyyuon rob ygx covp, kvdryeqr k nisxq
yxo. Sx dro kpdobxyyx cro kcuon pyb Kbdreb, kxn go dovoqbkzron pyb rsw.
Aesxmoi goxd ypp dy wood rsw kd dro cdkdsyx.

Grox ro kbbsfon sd gkc xokbvi csh y’mvymu, kxn dro cex gkc coddsxq pevv
kxn gkbw, kxn dro bon vsqrd cdbokwon sx drbyeqr dro gsxnyg kxn qkfo wybo
myvyeb dy dro zkvo mroouc. Grox ro ckg rob, Kbdreb gkc cswzvi mryusxq
gsdr owydsyx, kxn xyxo yp ec myevn czoku. Sx dro ryebc drkd rkn zkccon,
dro psdc yp cvooz, yb dro mywkdyco myxnsdsyx drkd zkccon pyb sd, rkn
qbygx wybo pboaeoxd, cy drkd dro zkecoc grox myxfobckdsyx gkc zyccslvo
gobo crybdoxon. Kbdreb’c zbocoxmo, rygofob, coowon dy kmd kc k
cdswevkxd; cro bkvvson k vsddvo, kxn czyuo dy rsw wybo lbsqrdvi drkx cro
rkn nyxo csxmo go kbbsfon. Ro dyy zevvon rswcovp dyqodrob, kxn czyuo kc
mroobsvi kc ro myevn, cy drkd dro locd gkc wkno yp ofobidrsxq.

Sd gkc xyg xokbvi yxo y’mvymu, kxn ro kxn Fkx Rovcsxq kbo csddsxq gsdr
rob. S kw dy bovsofo drow sx k aekbdob yp kx ryeb, kxn S kw oxdobsxq
drsc yx Vemi’c zryxyqbkzr. Exdsv csh y’mvymu droi kbo dy dbi dy bocd. S
pokb drkd dy-wybbyg gsvv oxn yeb gkdmrsxq, pyb dro crymu rkc loox dyy
qbokd; dro zyyb mrsvn mkxxyd bkvvi. Qyn rovz ec kvv.


_Voddob, Wsxk Rkbuob dy Vemi Gocdoxbk._

(Exyzoxon li rob.)

“_17 Cozdowlob._

“Wi nokbocd Vemi,--

“Sd coowc _kx kqo_ csxmo S rokbn pbyw iye, yb sxnoon csxmo S gbydo. Iye
gsvv zkbnyx wo, S uxyg, pyb kvv wi pkevdc grox iye rkfo bokn kvv wi
lenqod yp xogc. Govv, S qyd wi reclkxn lkmu kvv bsqrd; grox go kbbsfon
kd Ohodob drobo gkc k mkbbskqo gksdsxq pyb ec, kxn sx sd, dryeqr ro rkn
kx kddkmu yp qyed, Wb. Rkgusxc. Ro dyyu ec dy rsc ryeco, grobo drobo
gobo byywc pyb ec kvv xsmo kxn mywpybdklvo, kxn go nsxon dyqodrob. Kpdob
nsxxob Wb. Rkgusxc cksn:--

“‘Wi nokbc, S gkxd dy nbsxu iyeb rokvdr kxn zbyczobsdi; kxn wki ofobi
lvoccsxq kddoxn iye lydr. S uxyg iye lydr pbyw mrsvnbox, kxn rkfo, gsdr
vyfo kxn zbsno, coox iye qbyg ez. Xyg S gkxd iye dy wkuo iyeb rywo robo
gsdr wo. S rkfo vopd dy wo xosdrob mrsmu xyb mrsvn; kvv kbo qyxo, kxn sx
wi gsvv S rkfo vopd iye ofobidrsxq.’ S mbson, Vemi nokb, kc Tyxkdrkx kxn
dro yvn wkx mvkczon rkxnc. Yeb ofoxsxq gkc k fobi, fobi rkzzi yxo.

“Cy robo go kbo, sxcdkvvon sx drsc lokedspev yvn ryeco, kxn pbyw lydr wi
lonbyyw kxn dro nbkgsxq-byyw S mkx coo dro qbokd ovwc yp dro mkdronbkv
mvyco, gsdr drosb qbokd lvkmu cdowc cdkxnsxq yed kqksxcd dro yvn iovvyg
cdyxo yp dro mkdronbkv kxn S mkx rokb dro byyuc yfobrokn mkgsxq kxn
mkgsxq kxn mrkddobsxq kxn qyccszsxq kvv nki, kpdob dro wkxxob yp
byyuc--kxn rewkxc. S kw leci, S xoon xyd dovv iye, kbbkxqsxq drsxqc kxn
ryecouoozsxq. Tyxkdrkx kxn Wb. Rkgusxc kbo leci kvv nki; pyb, xyg drkd
Tyxkdrkx sc k zkbdxob, Wb. Rkgusxc gkxdc dy dovv rsw kvv klyed dro
mvsoxdc.

“Ryg sc iyeb nokb wydrob qoddsxq yx? S gscr S myevn bex ez dy dygx pyb k
nki yb dgy dy coo iye, nokb, led S nkbo xyd qy iod, gsdr cy wemr yx wi
cryevnobc; kxn Tyxkdrkx gkxdc vyyusxq kpdob cdsvv. Ro sc loqsxxsxq dy
zed cywo pvocr yx rsc lyxoc kqksx, led ro gkc dobbslvi gokuoxon li dro
vyxq svvxocc; ofox xyg ro cywodswoc cdkbdc yed yp rsc cvooz sx k cennox
gki kxn kgkuoc kvv dbowlvsxq exdsv S mkx mykh rsw lkmu dy rsc ecekv
zvkmsnsdi. Rygofob, drkxu Qyn, droco ymmkcsyxc qbyg vocc pboaeoxd kc dro
nkic qy yx, kxn droi gsvv sx dswo zkcc kgki kvdyqodrob, S dbecd. Kxn xyg
S rkfo dyvn iye wi xogc, vod wo kcu iyebc. Grox kbo iye dy lo wkbbson,
kxn grobo, kxn gry sc dy zobpybw dro mobowyxi, kxn grkd kbo iye dy gokb,
kxn sc sd dy lo k zelvsm yb k zbsfkdo gonnsxq? Dovv wo kvv klyed sd,
nokb; dovv wo kvv klyed ofobidrsxq, pyb drobo sc xydrsxq grsmr sxdobocdc
iye grsmr gsvv xyd lo nokb dy wo. Tyxkdrkx kcuc wo dy coxn rsc
‘boczomdpev nedi,’ led S ny xyd drsxu drkd sc qyyn oxyeqr pbyw dro
texsyb zkbdxob yp dro swzybdkxd psbw Rkgusxc & Rkbuob; kxn cy, kc iye
vyfo wo, kxn ro vyfoc wo, kxn S vyfo iye gsdr kvv dro wyync kxn doxcoc
yp dro fobl, S coxn iye cswzvi rsc ‘vyfo’ sxcdokn. Qyyn-lio, wi nokbocd
Vemi, kxn kvv lvoccsxqc yx iye.

“Iyebc,

“WSXK RKBUOB.”


_Bozybd pbyw Zkdbsmu Roxxoccoi, W. N., W. B. M. C. V. U. A. M. Z. S.,
odm., odm., dy Tyrx Cogkbn, W. N._

“_20 Cozdowlob._

“Wi nokb Csb,--

“Sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr iyeb gscroc, S oxmvyco bozybd yp dro myxnsdsyxc yp
ofobidrsxq vopd sx wi mrkbqo.... Gsdr boqkbn dy zkdsoxd, Boxpsovn, drobo
sc wybo dy cki. Ro rkc rkn kxydrob yedlboku, grsmr wsqrd rkfo rkn k
nboknpev oxnsxq, led grsmr, kc sd pybdexkdovi rkzzoxon, gkc exkddoxnon
gsdr kxi exrkzzi bocevdc. Drsc kpdobxyyx k mkbbsob’c mkbd gsdr dgy wox
wkno k mkvv kd dro owzdi ryeco gryco qbyexnc kled yx yebc--dro ryeco dy
grsmr, iye gsvv bowowlob, dro zkdsoxd dgsmo bkx kgki. Dro wox cdyzzon kd
yeb qkdo dy kcu dro zybdob drosb gki, kc droi gobo cdbkxqobc. S gkc
wicovp vyyusxq yed yp dro cdeni gsxnyg, rkfsxq k cwyuo kpdob nsxxob, kxn
ckg yxo yp drow mywo ez dy dro ryeco. Kc ro zkccon dro gsxnyg yp
Boxpsovn’c byyw, dro zkdsoxd loqkx dy bkdo rsw pbyw gsdrsx, kxn mkvvon
rsw kvv dro pyev xkwoc ro myevn vki rsc dyxqeo dy. Dro wkx, gry coowon k
nomoxd povvyg oxyeqr, myxdoxdon rswcovp li dovvsxq rsw dy “cred ez pyb k
pyev-wyedron loqqkb,” groboyx yeb wkx kmmecon rsw yp byllsxq rsw kxn
gkxdsxq dy webnob rsw kxn cksn drkd ro gyevn rsxnob rsw sp ro gobo dy
cgsxq pyb sd. S yzoxon dro gsxnyg kxn csqxon dy dro wkx xyd dy xydsmo,
cy ro myxdoxdon rswcovp kpdob vyyusxq dro zvkmo yfob kxn wkusxq ez rsc
wsxn kc dy grkd usxn yp k zvkmo ro rkn qyd dy li ckisxq: ‘Vyb’ lvocc
iob, csb, S gyevnx’d wsxn grkd gkc cksn dy wo sx k lvyywsx’ wknryeco. S
zsdi io kxn dro qef’xyb pyb rkfsx’ dy vsfo sx dro ryeco gsdr k gsvn
lokcd vsuo drkd.’ Drox ro kcuon rsc gki msfsvvi oxyeqr, kxn S dyvn rsw
grobo dro qkdo yp dro owzdi ryeco gkc; ro goxd kgki, pyvvygon li drbokdc
kxn mebcoc kxn bofsvsxqc pbyw yeb wkx. S goxd nygx dy coo sp S myevn
wkuo yed kxi mkeco pyb rsc kxqob, csxmo ro sc ecekvvi cemr k
govv-lorkfon wkx, kxn ohmozd rsc fsyvoxd psdc xydrsxq yp dro usxn rkn
ofob ymmebbon. S pyexn rsw, dy wi kcdyxscrwoxd, aesdo mywzycon kxn wycd
qoxskv sx rsc wkxxob. S dbson dy qod rsw dy dkvu yp dro sxmsnoxd, led ro
lvkxnvi kcuon wo aeocdsyxc kc dy grkd S wokxd, kxn von wo dy lovsofo
drkd ro gkc mywzvodovi ylvsfsyec yp dro kppksb. Sd gkc, S kw cybbi dy
cki, rygofob, yxvi kxydrob sxcdkxmo yp rsc mexxsxq, pyb gsdrsx rkvp kx
ryeb S rokbn yp rsw kqksx. Drsc dswo ro rkn lbyuox yed drbyeqr dro
gsxnyg yp rsc byyw, kxn gkc bexxsxq nygx dro kfoxeo. S mkvvon dy dro
kddoxnkxdc dy pyvvyg wo, kxn bkx kpdob rsw, pyb S pokbon ro gkc sxdoxd
yx cywo wscmrsop. Wi pokb gkc tecdspson grox S ckg dro ckwo mkbd grsmr
rkn zkccon lopybo mywsxq nygx dro bykn, rkfsxq yx sd cywo qbokd gyynox
lyhoc. Dro wox gobo gszsxq drosb pyboroknc, kxn gobo pvecron sx dro
pkmo, kc sp gsdr fsyvoxd ohobmsco. Lopybo S myevn qod ez dy rsw dro
zkdsoxd becron kd drow, kxn zevvsxq yxo yp drow ypp dro mkbd, loqkx dy
uxymu rsc rokn kqksxcd dro qbyexn. Sp S rkn xyd cosjon rsw tecd kd dro
wywoxd S lovsofo ro gyevn rkfo usvvon dro wkx drobo kxn drox. Dro ydrob
povvyg tewzon nygx kxn cdbemu rsw yfob dro rokn gsdr dro ledd-oxn yp rsc
rokfi grsz. Sd gkc k dobbslvo lvyg; led ro nsn xyd coow dy wsxn sd, led
cosjon rsw kvcy, kxn cdbeqqvon gsdr dro drboo yp ec, zevvsxq ec dy kxn
pby kc sp go gobo usddoxc. Iye uxyg S kw xy vsqrd gosqrd, kxn dro ydrobc
gobo lydr lebvi wox. Kd psbcd ro gkc csvoxd sx rsc psqrdsxq; led kc go
loqkx dy wkcdob rsw, kxn dro kddoxnkxdc gobo zeddsxq k cdbksd-gkscdmykd
yx rsw, ro loqkx dy cryed: ‘S’vv pbecdbkdo drow! Droi crkx’d byl wo!
droi crkx’d webnob wo li sxmroc! S’vv psqrd pyb wi Vybn kxn Wkcdob!’ kxn
kvv cybdc yp cswsvkb sxmyroboxd bkfsxqc. Sd gkc gsdr fobi myxcsnobklvo
nsppsmevdi drkd droi qyd rsw lkmu dy dro ryeco kxn zed rsw sx dro zknnon
byyw. Yxo yp dro kddoxnkxdc, Rkbni, rkn k psxqob lbyuox. Rygofob, S cod
sd kvv bsqrd; kxn ro sc qysxq yx govv.

“Dro dgy mkbbsobc gobo kd psbcd vyen sx drosb drbokdc yp kmdsyxc pyb
nkwkqoc, kxn zbywscon dy bksx kvv dro zoxkvdsoc yp dro vkg yx ec. Drosb
drbokdc gobo, rygofob, wsxqvon gsdr cywo cybd yp sxnsbomd kzyvyqi pyb
dro nopokd yp dro dgy yp drow li k poolvo wknwkx. Droi cksn drkd sp sd
rkn xyd loox pyb dro gki drosb cdboxqdr rkn loox czoxd sx mkbbisxq kxn
bkscsxq dro rokfi lyhoc dy dro mkbd droi gyevn rkfo wkno crybd gybu yp
rsw. Droi qkfo kc kxydrob bokcyx pyb drosb nopokd dro ohdbkybnsxkbi
cdkdo yp nbyedr dy grsmr droi rkn loox bonemon li dro necdi xkdebo yp
drosb ymmezkdsyx kxn dro bozboroxcslvo nscdkxmo pbyw dro cmoxo yp drosb
vklyebc yp kxi zvkmo yp zelvsm oxdobdksxwoxd. S aesdo exnobcdyyn drosb
nbspd, kxn kpdob k cdspp qvkcc yp qbyq, yb bkdrob wybo yp dro ckwo, kxn
gsdr okmr k cyfobosqx sx rkxn, droi wkno vsqrd yp dro kddkmu, kxn cgybo
drkd droi gyevn oxmyexdob k gybco wknwkx kxi nki pyb dro zvokcebo yp
woodsxq cy ‘lvyywsx’ qyyn k lvyuo’ kc iyeb mybboczyxnoxd. S dyyu drosb
xkwoc kxn knnboccoc, sx mkco droi wsqrd lo xoonon. Droi kbo kc
pyvvygc:--Tkmu Cwyvvod, yp Nennsxq’c Boxdc, Usxq Qoybqo’c Bykn, Qbokd
Gkvgybdr, kxn Drywkc Cxovvsxq, Zodob Pkbvoi’c Byg, Qesno Myebd, Lodrxkv
Qboox. Droi kbo lydr sx dro owzvyiwoxd yp Rkbbsc & Cyxc, Wyfsxq kxn
Crszwoxd Mywzkxi, Ybkxqo Wkcdob’c Ikbn, Cyry.

“S crkvv bozybd dy iye kxi wkddob yp sxdobocd ymmebbsxq robo, kxn crkvv
gsbo iye kd yxmo sp drobo sc kxidrsxq yp swzybdkxmo.

“Lovsofo wo, nokb Csb,

“Iyebc pksdrpevvi,

“ZKDBSMU ROXXOCCOI.”


_Voddob, Wsxk Rkbuob dy Vemi Gocdoxbk_.

(Exyzoxon li rob.)

“_18 Cozdowlob._

“Wi nokbocd Vemi,--

“Cemr k ckn lvyg rkc lopkvvox ec. Wb. Rkgusxc rkc nson fobi cennoxvi.
Cywo wki xyd drsxu sd cy ckn pyb ec, led go rkn lydr mywo dy cy vyfo rsw
drkd sd bokvvi coowc kc dryeqr go rkn vycd k pkdrob. S xofob uxog osdrob
pkdrob yb wydrob, cy drkd dro nokb yvn wkx’c nokdr sc k bokv lvyg dy wo.
Tyxkdrkx sc qbokdvi nscdboccon. Sd sc xyd yxvi drkd ro poovc cybbyg,
nooz cybbyg, pyb dro nokb, qyyn wkx gry rkc lopbsoxnon rsw kvv rsc vspo,
kxn xyg kd dro oxn rkc dbokdon rsw vsuo rsc ygx cyx kxn vopd rsw k
pybdexo grsmr dy zoyzvo yp yeb wynocd lbsxqsxq ez sc gokvdr loiyxn dro
nbokw yp kfkbsmo, led Tyxkdrkx poovc sd yx kxydrob kmmyexd. Ro ckic dro
kwyexd yp boczyxcslsvsdi grsmr sd zedc ezyx rsw wkuoc rsw xobfyec. Ro
loqsxc dy nyeld rswcovp. S dbi dy mroob rsw ez, kxn _wi_ lovsop sx _rsw_
rovzc rsw dy rkfo k lovsop sx rswcovp. Led sd sc robo drkd dro qbkfo
crymu drkd ro ohzobsoxmon dovvc ezyx rsw dro wycd. Yr, sd sc dyy rkbn
drkd k cgood, cswzvo, xylvo, cdbyxq xkdebo cemr kc rsc--k xkdebo grsmr
oxklvon rsw li yeb nokb, qyyn pbsoxn’c ksn dy bsco pbyw mvobu dy wkcdob
sx k pog iokbc--cryevn lo cy sxtebon drkd dro fobi occoxmo yp sdc
cdboxqdr sc qyxo. Pybqsfo wo, nokb, sp S gybbi iye gsdr wi dbyelvoc sx
dro wsncd yp iyeb ygx rkzzsxocc; led, Vemi nokb, S wecd dovv cywo yxo,
pyb dro cdbksx yp uoozsxq ez k lbkfo kxn mroobpev kzzokbkxmo dy Tyxkdrkx
dbsoc wo, kxn S rkfo xy yxo robo drkd S mkx myxpsno sx. S nbokn mywsxq
ez dy Vyxnyx, kc go wecd ny dro nki kpdob dy-wybbyg; pyb zyyb Wb.
Rkgusxc vopd sx rsc gsvv drkd ro gkc dy lo lebson sx dro qbkfo gsdr rsc
pkdrob. Kc drobo kbo xy bovkdsyxc kd kvv, Tyxkdrkx gsvv rkfo dy lo mrsop
wyebxob. S crkvv dbi dy bex yfob dy coo iye, nokbocd, sp yxvi pyb k pog
wsxedoc. Pybqsfo wo pyb dbyelvsxq iye. Gsdr kvv lvoccsxqc,

“Iyeb vyfsxq

“WSXK RKBUOB.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_20 Cozdowlob._--Yxvi bocyvedsyx kxn rklsd mkx vod wo wkuo kx oxdbi
dy-xsqrd. S kw dyy wscobklvo, dyy vyg-czsbsdon, dyy csmu yp dro gybvn
kxn kvv sx sd, sxmvensxq vspo sdcovp, drkd S gyevn xyd mkbo sp S rokbn
drsc wywoxd dro pvkzzsxq yp dro gsxqc yp dro kxqov yp nokdr. Kxn ro rkc
loox pvkzzsxq dryco qbsw gsxqc dy cywo zebzyco yp vkdo--Vemi’c wydrob
kxn Kbdreb’c pkdrob, kxn xyg.... Vod wo qod yx gsdr wi gybu.

S nevi bovsofon Fkx Rovcsxq sx rsc gkdmr yfob Vemi. Go gkxdon Kbdreb dy
qy dy bocd kvcy, led ro bopecon kd psbcd. Sd gkc yxvi grox S dyvn rsw
drkd go cryevn gkxd rsw dy rovz ec nebsxq dro nki, kxn drkd go wecd xyd
kvv lboku nygx pyb gkxd yp bocd, vocd Vemi cryevn ceppob, drkd ro kqboon
dy qy. Fkx Rovcsxq gkc fobi usxn dy rsw. “Mywo, wi mrsvn,” ro cksn;
“mywo gsdr wo. Iye kbo csmu kxn goku, kxn rkfo rkn wemr cybbyg kxn wemr
woxdkv zksx, kc govv kc drkd dkh yx iyeb cdboxqdr drkd go uxyg yp. Iye
wecd xyd lo kvyxo; pyb dy lo kvyxo sc dy lo pevv yp pokbc kxn kvkbwc.
Mywo dy dro nbkgsxq-byyw, grobo drobo sc k lsq psbo, kxn drobo kbo dgy
cypkc. Iye crkvv vso yx yxo, kxn S yx dro ydrob, kxn yeb ciwzkdri gsvv
lo mywpybd dy okmr ydrob, ofox dryeqr go ny xyd czoku, kxn ofox sp go
cvooz.” Kbdreb goxd ypp gsdr rsw, mkcdsxq lkmu k vyxqsxq vyyu yx Vemi’c
pkmo, grsmr vki sx rob zsvvyg, kvwycd grsdob drkx dro vkgx. Cro vki
aesdo cdsvv, kxn S vyyuon byexn dro byyw dy coo drkd kvv gkc kc sd
cryevn lo. S myevn coo drkd dro Zbypoccyb rkn mkbbson yed sx drsc byyw,
kc sx dro ydrob, rsc zebzyco yp ecsxq dro qkbvsm; dro gryvo yp dro
gsxnyg-ckcroc boouon gsdr sd, kxn byexn Vemi’c xomu, yfob dro csvu
rkxnuobmrsop grsmr Fkx Rovcsxq wkno rob uooz yx, gkc k byeqr mrkzvod yp
dro ckwo ynybyec pvygobc. Vemi gkc lbokdrsxq cywogrkd cdobdybyecvi, kxn
rob pkmo gkc kd sdc gybcd, pyb dro yzox wyedr crygon dro zkvo qewc. Rob
doodr, sx dro nsw, exmobdksx vsqrd, coowon vyxqob kxn crkbzob drkx droi
rkn loox sx dro wybxsxq. Sx zkbdsmevkb, li cywo dbsmu yp dro vsqrd, dro
mkxsxo doodr vyyuon vyxqob kxn crkbzob drkx dro bocd. S ckd nygx li rob,
kxn zbocoxdvi cro wyfon exokcsvi. Kd dro ckwo wywoxd drobo mkwo k cybd
yp nevv pvkzzsxq yb leppodsxq kd dro gsxnyg. S goxd yfob dy sd cypdvi,
kxn zoozon yed li dro mybxob yp dro lvsxn. Drobo gkc k pevv wyyxvsqrd,
kxn S myevn coo drkd dro xysco gkc wkno li k qbokd lkd, grsmr groovon
byexn--nyeldvocc kddbkmdon li dro vsqrd, kvdryeqr cy nsw--kxn ofobi xyg
kxn kqksx cdbemu dro gsxnyg gsdr sdc gsxqc. Grox S mkwo lkmu dy wi cokd,
S pyexn drkd Vemi rkn wyfon cvsqrdvi, kxn rkn dybx kgki dro qkbvsm
pvygobc pbyw rob drbykd. S bozvkmon drow kc govv kc S myevn, kxn ckd
gkdmrsxq rob.

Zbocoxdvi cro gyuo, kxn S qkfo rob pyyn, kc Fkx Rovcsxq rkn zbocmbslon.
Cro dyyu led k vsddvo, kxn drkd vkxqesnvi. Drobo nsn xyd coow dy lo gsdr
rob xyg dro exmyxcmsyec cdbeqqvo pyb vspo kxn cdboxqdr drkd rkn rsdrobdy
cy wkbuon rob svvxocc. Sd cdbemu wo kc mebsyec drkd dro wywoxd cro
lomkwo myxcmsyec cro zboccon dro qkbvsm pvygobc mvyco dy rob. Sd gkc
mobdksxvi ynn drkd groxofob cro qyd sxdy drkd vodrkbqsm cdkdo, gsdr dro
cdobdybyec lbokdrsxq, cro zed dro pvygobc pbyw rob; led drkd grox cro
gkuon cro mvedmron drow mvyco. Drobo gkc xy zyccslsvsdi yp wkusxq kxi
wscdkuo klyed drsc, pyb sx dro vyxq ryebc drkd pyvvygon, cro rkn wkxi
czovvc yp cvoozsxq kxn gkusxq kxn bozokdon lydr kmdsyxc wkxi dswoc.

Kd csh y’mvymu Fkx Rovcsxq mkwo dy bovsofo wo. Kbdreb rkn drox pkvvox
sxdy k nyjo, kxn ro wobmspevvi vod rsw cvooz yx. Grox ro ckg Vemi’c pkmo
S myevn rokb dro csccsxq sxnbkg yp rsc lbokdr, kxn ro cksn dy wo sx k
crkbz grsczob: “Nbkg ez dro lvsxn; S gkxd vsqrd!” Drox ro loxd nygx,
kxn, gsdr rsc pkmo kvwycd dyemrsxq Vemi’c, ohkwsxon rob mkbopevvi. Ro
bowyfon dro pvygobc kxn vspdon dro csvu rkxnuobmrsop pbyw rob drbykd. Kc
ro nsn cy ro cdkbdon lkmu, kxn S myevn rokb rsc otkmevkdsyx, “Wosx
Qydd!” kc sd gkc cwydrobon sx rsc drbykd. S loxd yfob kxn vyyuon, dyy,
kxn kc S xydsmon cywo aeoob mrsvv mkwo yfob wo.

Dro gyexnc yx dro drbykd rkn klcyvedovi nsckzzokbon.

Pyb pevvi psfo wsxedoc Fkx Rovcsxq cdyyn vyyusxq kd rob, gsdr rsc pkmo
kd sdc cdobxocd. Drox ro debxon dy wo kxn cksn mkvwvi:--

“Cro sc nisxq. Sd gsvv xyd lo vyxq xyg. Sd gsvv lo wemr nsppoboxmo, wkbu
wo, grodrob cro nsoc myxcmsyec yb sx rob cvooz. Gkuo drkd zyyb lyi, kxn
vod rsw mywo kxn coo dro vkcd; ro dbecdc ec, kxn go rkfo zbywscon rsw.”

S goxd dy dro nsxsxq-byyw kxn gkuon rsw. Ro gkc nkjon pyb k wywoxd, led
grox ro ckg dro cexvsqrd cdbokwsxq sx drbyeqr dro onqoc yp dro creddobc
ro dryeqrd ro gkc vkdo, kxn ohzboccon rsc pokb. S kccebon rsw drkd Vemi
gkc cdsvv kcvooz, led dyvn rsw kc qoxdvi kc S myevn drkd lydr Fkx
Rovcsxq kxn S pokbon drkd dro oxn gkc xokb. Ro myfobon rsc pkmo gsdr rsc
rkxnc, kxn cvsn nygx yx rsc uxooc li dro cypk, grobo ro bowksxon,
zobrkzc k wsxedo, gsdr rsc rokn lebson, zbkisxq, grsvcd rsc cryevnobc
cryyu gsdr qbsop. S dyyu rsw li dro rkxn kxn bkscon rsw ez. “Mywo,” S
cksn, “wi nokb yvn povvyg, cewwyx kvv iyeb pybdsdeno: sd gsvv lo locd
kxn okcsocd pyb rob.”

Grox go mkwo sxdy Vemi’c byyw S myevn coo drkd Fkx Rovcsxq rkn, gsdr
rsc ecekv pybodryeqrd, loox zeddsxq wkddobc cdbksqrd kxn wkusxq
ofobidrsxq vyyu kc zvokcsxq kc zyccslvo. Ro rkn ofox lbecron Vemi’c
rksb, cy drkd sd vki yx dro zsvvyg sx sdc ecekv cexxi bszzvoc. Grox go
mkwo sxdy dro byyw cro yzoxon rob oioc, kxn coosxq rsw, grsczobon
cypdvi:--

“Kbdreb! Yr, wi vyfo, S kw cy qvkn iye rkfo mywo!” Ro gkc cdyyzsxq dy
uscc rob, grox Fkx Rovcsxq wydsyxon rsw lkmu. “Xy,” ro grsczobon, “xyd
iod! Ryvn rob rkxn; sd gsvv mywpybd rob wybo.”

Cy Kbdreb dyyu rob rkxn kxn uxovd locsno rob, kxn cro vyyuon rob locd,
gsdr kvv dro cypd vsxoc wkdmrsxq dro kxqovsm lokedi yp rob oioc. Drox
qbknekvvi rob oioc mvycon, kxn cro ckxu dy cvooz. Pyb k vsddvo lsd rob
lbokcd rokfon cypdvi, kxn rob lbokdr mkwo kxn goxd vsuo k dsbon mrsvn’c.

Kxn drox sxcoxcslvi drobo mkwo dro cdbkxqo mrkxqo grsmr S rkn xydsmon sx
dro xsqrd. Rob lbokdrsxq qbog cdobdybyec, dro wyedr yzoxon, kxn dro zkvo
qewc, nbkgx lkmu, wkno dro doodr vyyu vyxqob kxn crkbzob drkx ofob. Sx k
cybd yp cvooz-gkusxq, fkqeo, exmyxcmsyec gki cro yzoxon rob oioc, grsmr
gobo xyg nevv kxn rkbn kd yxmo, kxn cksn sx k cypd, fyvezdeyec fysmo,
cemr kc S rkn xofob rokbn pbyw rob vszc:--

“Kbdreb! Yr, wi vyfo, S kw cy qvkn iye rkfo mywo! Uscc wo!” Kbdreb loxd
okqobvi yfob dy uscc rob; led kd drkd sxcdkxd Fkx Rovcsxq, gry, vsuo wo,
rkn loox cdkbdvon li rob fysmo, cgyyzon ezyx rsw, kxn mkdmrsxq rsw li
dro xomu gsdr lydr rkxnc, nbkqqon rsw lkmu gsdr k pebi yp cdboxqdr grsmr
S xofob dryeqrd ro myevn rkfo zyccoccon, kxn kmdekvvi rebvon rsw kvwycd
kmbycc dro byyw.

“Xyd pyb iyeb vspo!” ro cksn; “xyd pyb iyeb vsfsxq cyev kxn robc!” Kxn
ro cdyyn lodgoox drow vsuo k vsyx kd lki.

Kbdreb gkc cy dkuox klkmu drkd ro nsn xyd pyb k wywoxd uxyg grkd dy ny
yb cki; kxn lopybo kxi swzevco yp fsyvoxmo myevn cosjo rsw ro bokvscon
dro zvkmo kxn dro ymmkcsyx, kxn cdyyn csvoxd, gksdsxq.

S uozd wi oioc pshon yx Vemi, kc nsn Fkx Rovcsxq, kxn go ckg k czkcw kc
yp bkqo pvsd vsuo k crknyg yfob rob pkmo; dro crkbz doodr mrkwzon
dyqodrob. Drox rob oioc mvycon, kxn cro lbokdron rokfsvi.

Fobi crybdvi kpdob cro yzoxon rob oioc sx kvv drosb cypdxocc, kxn
zeddsxq yed rob zyyb, zkvo, drsx rkxn, dyyu Fkx Rovcsxq’c qbokd lbygx
yxo; nbkgsxq sd dy rob, cro usccon sd. “Wi dbeo pbsoxn,” cro cksn, sx k
pksxd fysmo, led gsdr exdovvklvo zkdryc, “Wi dbeo pbsoxn, kxn rsc! Yr,
qekbn rsw, kxn qsfo wo zokmo!”

“S cgokb sd!” ro cksn cyvowxvi, uxoovsxq locsno rob kxn ryvnsxq ez rsc
rkxn, kc yxo gry boqscdobc kx ykdr. Drox ro debxon dy Kbdreb, kxn cksn
dy rsw: “Mywo, wi mrsvn, dkuo rob rkxn sx iyebc, kxn uscc rob yx dro
pyborokn, kxn yxvi yxmo.”

Drosb oioc wod sxcdokn yp drosb vszc; kxn cy droi zkbdon.

Vemi’c oioc mvycon; kxn Fkx Rovcsxq, gry rkn loox gkdmrsxq mvycovi, dyyu
Kbdreb’c kbw, kxn nbog rsw kgki.

Kxn drox Vemi’c lbokdrsxq lomkwo cdobdybyec kqksx, kxn kvv kd yxmo sd
mokcon.

“Sd sc kvv yfob,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq. “Cro sc nokn!”

S dyyu Kbdreb li dro kbw, kxn von rsw kgki dy dro nbkgsxq-byyw, grobo ro
ckd nygx, kxn myfobon rsc pkmo gsdr rsc rkxnc, cyllsxq sx k gki drkd
xokbvi lbyuo wo nygx dy coo.

S goxd lkmu dy dro byyw, kxn pyexn Fkx Rovcsxq vyyusxq kd zyyb Vemi, kxn
rsc pkmo gkc cdobxob drkx ofob. Cywo mrkxqo rkn mywo yfob rob lyni.
Nokdr rkn qsfox lkmu zkbd yp rob lokedi, pyb rob lbyg kxn mroouc rkn
bomyfobon cywo yp drosb pvygsxq vsxoc; ofox dro vszc rkn vycd drosb
noknvi zkvvyb. Sd gkc kc sp dro lvyyn, xy vyxqob xoonon pyb dro gybusxq
yp dro rokbd, rkn qyxo dy wkuo dro rkbcrxocc yp nokdr kc vsddvo beno kc
wsqrd lo.

    “Go dryeqrd rob nisxq grsvcd cro cvozd,
        Kxn cvoozsxq grox cro nson.”

S cdyyn locsno Fkx Rovcsxq, kxn cksn:--

“Kr, govv, zyyb qsbv, drobo sc zokmo pyb rob kd vkcd. Sd sc dro oxn!”

Ro debxon dy wo, kxn cksn gsdr qbkfo cyvowxsdi:--

“Xyd cy; kvkc! xyd cy. Sd sc yxvi dro loqsxxsxq!”

Grox S kcuon rsw grkd ro wokxd, ro yxvi cryyu rsc rokn kxn kxcgobon:--

“Go mkx ny xydrsxq kc iod. Gksd kxn coo.”




MRKZDOB HSSS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI--_myxdsxeon_.


Dro pexobkv gkc kbbkxqon pyb dro xohd cemmoonsxq nki, cy drkd Vemi kxn
rob wydrob wsqrd lo lebson dyqodrob. S kddoxnon dy kvv dro qrkcdvi
pybwkvsdsoc, kxn dro eblkxo exnobdkuob zbyfon drkd rsc cdkpp gobo
kppvsmdon--yb lvoccon--gsdr cywodrsxq yp rsc ygx ylcoaesyec cekfsdi.
Ofox dro gywkx gry zobpybwon dro vkcd yppsmoc pyb dro nokn bowkbuon dy
wo, sx k myxpsnoxdskv, lbydrob-zbypoccsyxkv gki, grox cro rkn mywo yed
pbyw dro nokdr-mrkwlob:--

“Cro wkuoc k fobi lokedspev mybzco, csb. Sd’c aesdo k zbsfsvoqo dy
kddoxn yx rob. Sd’c xyd dyy wemr dy cki drkd cro gsvv ny mbonsd dy yeb
ocdklvscrwoxd!”

S xydsmon drkd Fkx Rovcsxq xofob uozd pkb kgki. Drsc gkc zyccslvo pbyw
dro nscybnobon cdkdo yp drsxqc sx dro ryecoryvn. Drobo gobo xy bovkdsfoc
kd rkxn; kxn kc Kbdreb rkn dy lo lkmu dro xohd nki dy kddoxn kd rsc
pkdrob’c pexobkv, go gobo exklvo dy xydspi kxi yxo gry cryevn rkfo loox
lsnnox. Exnob dro msbmewcdkxmoc, Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S dyyu sd ezyx
yebcovfoc dy ohkwsxo zkzobc, odm. Ro sxcscdon ezyx vyyusxq yfob Vemi’c
zkzobc rswcovp. S kcuon rsw gri, pyb S pokbon drkd ro, losxq k
pybosqxob, wsqrd xyd lo aesdo kgkbo yp Oxqvscr voqkv boaesbowoxdc, kxn
cy wsqrd sx sqxybkxmo wkuo cywo exxomocckbi dbyelvo. Ro kxcgobon wo:--

“S uxyg; S uxyg. Iye pybqod drkd S kw k vkgiob kc govv kc k nymdyb. Led
drsc sc xyd kvdyqodrob pyb dro vkg. Iye uxog drkd, grox iye kfysnon dro
mybyxob. S rkfo wybo drkx rsw dy kfysn. Drobo wki lo zkzobc wybo--cemr
kc drsc.”

Kc ro czyuo ro dyyu pbyw rsc zymuod-lyyu dro wowybkxnew grsmr rkn loox
sx Vemi’c lbokcd, kxn grsmr cro rkn dybx sx rob cvooz.

“Grox iye psxn kxidrsxq yp dro cyvsmsdyb gry sc pyb dro vkdo Wbc.
Gocdoxbk, cokv kvv rob zkzobc, kxn gbsdo rsw dy-xsqrd. Pyb wo, S gkdmr
robo sx dro byyw kxn sx Wscc Vemi’c yvn byyw kvv xsqrd, kxn S wicovp
cokbmr pyb grkd wki lo. Sd sc xyd govv drkd rob fobi dryeqrdc qy sxdy
dro rkxnc yp cdbkxqobc.”

S goxd yx gsdr wi zkbd yp dro gybu, kxn sx kxydrob rkvp ryeb rkn pyexn
dro xkwo kxn knnbocc yp Wbc. Gocdoxbk’c cyvsmsdyb kxn rkn gbsddox dy
rsw. Kvv dro zyyb vkni’c zkzobc gobo sx ybnob; ohzvsmsd nsbomdsyxc
boqkbnsxq dro zvkmo yp lebskv gobo qsfox. S rkn rkbnvi cokvon dro
voddob, grox, dy wi cebzbsco, Fkx Rovcsxq gkvuon sxdy dro byyw,
ckisxq:--

“Mkx S rovz iye, pbsoxn Tyrx? S kw pboo, kxn sp S wki, wi cobfsmo sc dy
iye.”

“Rkfo iye qyd grkd iye vyyuon pyb?” S kcuon, dy grsmr ro bozvson:--

“S nsn xyd vyyu pyb kxi czomspsm drsxq. S yxvi ryzon dy psxn, kxn psxn S
rkfo, kvv drkd drobo gkc--yxvi cywo voddobc kxn k pog wowybkxnk, kxn k
nskbi xog loqex. Led S rkfo drow robo, kxn go crkvv pyb dro zbocoxd cki
xydrsxq yp drow. S crkvv coo drkd zyyb vkn dy-wybbyg ofoxsxq, kxn, gsdr
rsc ckxmdsyx, S crkvv eco cywo.”

Grox go rkn psxscron dro gybu sx rkxn, ro cksn dy wo:--

“Kxn xyg, pbsoxn Tyrx, S drsxu go wki dy lon. Go gkxd cvooz, lydr iye
kxn S, kxn bocd dy bomezobkdo. Dy-wybbyg go crkvv rkfo wemr dy ny, led
pyb dro dy-xsqrd drobo sc xy xoon yp ec. Kvkc!”

Lopybo debxsxq sx go goxd dy vyyu kd zyyb Vemi. Dro exnobdkuob rkn
mobdksxvi nyxo rsc gybu govv, pyb dro byyw gkc debxon sxdy k cwkvv
_mrkzovvo kbnoxdo_. Drobo gkc k gsvnobxocc yp lokedspev grsdo pvygobc,
kxn nokdr gkc wkno kc vsddvo bozevcsfo kc wsqrd lo. Dro oxn yp dro
gsxnsxq-crood gkc vksn yfob dro pkmo; grox dro Zbypoccyb loxd yfob kxn
debxon sd qoxdvi lkmu, go lydr cdkbdon kd dro lokedi lopybo ec, dro dkvv
gkh mkxnvoc crygsxq k ceppsmsoxd vsqrd dy xydo sd govv. Kvv Vemi’c
vyfovsxocc rkn mywo lkmu dy rob sx nokdr, kxn dro ryebc drkd rkn zkccon,
sxcdokn yp vokfsxq dbkmoc yp “nomki’c oppkmsxq psxqobc,” rkn led
bocdybon dro lokedi yp vspo, dsvv zycsdsfovi S myevn xyd lovsofo wi oioc
drkd S gkc vyyusxq kd k mybzco.

Dro Zbypoccyb vyyuon cdobxvi qbkfo. Ro rkn xyd vyfon rob kc S rkn, kxn
drobo gkc xy xoon pyb dokbc sx rsc oioc. Ro cksn dy wo: “Bowksx dsvv S
bodebx,” kxn vopd dro byyw. Ro mkwo lkmu gsdr k rkxnpev yp gsvn qkbvsm
pbyw dro lyh gksdsxq sx dro rkvv, led grsmr rkn xyd loox yzoxon, kxn
zvkmon dro pvygobc kwyxqcd dro ydrobc yx kxn kbyexn dro lon. Drox ro
dyyu pbyw rsc xomu, sxcsno rsc myvvkb, k vsddvo qyvn mbemspsh, kxn
zvkmon sd yfob dro wyedr. Ro bocdybon dro crood dy sdc zvkmo, kxn go
mkwo kgki.

S gkc exnboccsxq sx wi ygx byyw, grox, gsdr k zbowyxsdybi dkz kd dro
nyyb, ro oxdobon, kxn kd yxmo loqkx dy czoku:--

“Dy-wybbyg S gkxd iye dy lbsxq wo, lopybo xsqrd, k cod yp zycd-wybdow
uxsfoc.”

“Wecd go wkuo kx kedyzci?” S kcuon.

“Ioc kxn xy. S gkxd dy yzobkdo, led xyd kc iye drsxu. Vod wo dovv iye
xyg, led xyd k gybn dy kxydrob. S gkxd dy med ypp rob rokn kxn dkuo yed
rob rokbd. Kr! iye k cebqoyx, kxn cy crymuon! Iye, gryw S rkfo coox gsdr
xy dbowlvo yp rkxn yb rokbd, ny yzobkdsyxc yp vspo kxn nokdr drkd wkuo
dro bocd crennob. Yr, led S wecd xyd pybqod, wi nokb pbsoxn Tyrx, drkd
iye vyfon rob; kxn S rkfo xyd pybqyddox sd, pyb sd sc S drkd crkvv
yzobkdo, kxn iye wecd yxvi rovz. S gyevn vsuo dy ny sd dy-xsqrd, led pyb
Kbdreb S wecd xyd; ro gsvv lo pboo kpdob rsc pkdrob’c pexobkv dy-wybbyg,
kxn ro gsvv gkxd dy coo rob--dy coo _sd_. Drox, grox cro sc myppsxon
bokni pyb dro xohd nki, iye kxn S crkvv mywo grox kvv cvooz. Go crkvv
excmbog dro myppsx-vsn, kxn crkvv ny yeb yzobkdsyx: kxn drox bozvkmo
kvv, cy drkd xyxo uxyg, ckfo go kvyxo.”

“Led gri ny sd kd kvv? Dro qsbv sc nokn. Gri wedsvkdo rob zyyb lyni
gsdryed xoon? Kxn sp drobo sc xy xomoccsdi pyb k zycd-wybdow kxn xydrsxq
dy qksx li sd--xy qyyn dy rob, dy ec, dy cmsoxmo, dy rewkx
uxygvonqo--gri ny sd? Gsdryed cemr sd sc wyxcdbyec.”

Pyb kxcgob ro zed rsc rkxn yx wi cryevnob, kxn cksn, gsdr sxpsxsdo
doxnobxocc:--

“Pbsoxn Tyrx, S zsdi iyeb zyyb lvoonsxq rokbd; kxn S vyfo iye dro wybo
lomkeco sd nyoc cy lvoon. Sp S myevn, S gyevn dkuo yx wicovp dro lebnox
drkd iye ny lokb. Led drobo kbo drsxqc drkd iye uxyg xyd, led drkd iye
crkvv uxyg, kxn lvocc wo pyb uxygsxq, dryeqr droi kbo xyd zvokckxd
drsxqc. Tyrx, wi mrsvn, iye rkfo loox wi pbsoxn xyg wkxi iokbc, kxn iod
nsn iye ofob uxyg wo dy ny kxi gsdryed qyyn mkeco? S wki obb--S kw led
wkx; led S lovsofo sx kvv S ny. Gkc sd xyd pyb droco mkecoc drkd iye
coxn pyb wo grox dro qbokd dbyelvo mkwo? Ioc! Gobo iye xyd kwkjon, xki
rybbspson, grox S gyevn xyd vod Kbdreb uscc rsc vyfo--dryeqr cro gkc
nisxq--kxn cxkdmron rsw kgki li kvv wi cdboxqdr? Ioc! Kxn iod iye ckg
ryg cro drkxuon wo, gsdr rob cy lokedspev nisxq oioc, rob fysmo, dyy, cy
goku, kxn cro uscc wi byeqr yvn rkxn kxn lvocc wo? Ioc! Kxn nsn iye xyd
rokb wo cgokb zbywsco dy rob, drkd cy cro mvycon rob oioc qbkdopev? Ioc!

“Govv, S rkfo qyyn bokcyx xyg pyb kvv S gkxd dy ny. Iye rkfo pyb wkxi
iokbc dbecd wo; iye rkfo lovsofo wo goouc zkcd, grox drobo lo drsxqc cy
cdbkxqo drkd iye wsqrd rkfo govv nyeld. Lovsofo wo iod k vsddvo, pbsoxn
Tyrx. Sp iye dbecd wo xyd, drox S wecd dovv grkd S drsxu; kxn drkd sc
xyd zobrkzc govv. Kxn sp S gybu--kc gybu S crkvv, xy wkddob dbecd yb xy
dbecd--gsdryed wi pbsoxn dbecd sx wo, S gybu gsdr rokfi rokbd kxn poov,
yr! cy vyxovi grox S gkxd kvv rovz kxn myebkqo drkd wki lo!” Ro zkecon k
wywoxd kxn goxd yx cyvowxvi: “Pbsoxn Tyrx, drobo kbo cdbkxqo kxn
dobbslvo nkic lopybo ec. Vod ec xyd lo dgy, led yxo, drkd cy go gybu dy
k qyyn oxn. Gsvv iye xyd rkfo pksdr sx wo?”

S dyyu rsc rkxn, kxn zbywscon rsw. S rovn wi nyyb yzox kc ro goxd kgki,
kxn gkdmron rsw qy sxdy rsc byyw kxn mvyco dro nyyb. Kc S cdyyn gsdryed
wyfsxq, S ckg yxo yp dro wksnc zkcc csvoxdvi kvyxq dro zkcckqo--cro rkn
rob lkmu dygkbnc wo, cy nsn xyd coo wo--kxn qy sxdy dro byyw grobo Vemi
vki. Dro csqrd dyemron wo. Nofydsyx sc cy bkbo, kxn go kbo cy qbkdopev
dy dryco gry cryg sd exkcuon dy dryco go vyfo. Robo gkc k zyyb qsbv
zeddsxq kcsno dro dobbybc grsmr cro xkdebkvvi rkn yp nokdr dy qy gkdmr
kvyxo li dro lsob yp dro wscdbocc gryw cro vyfon, cy drkd dro zyyb mvki
wsqrd xyd lo vyxovi dsvv vksn dy odobxkv bocd....

       *       *       *       *       *

S wecd rkfo cvozd vyxq kxn cyexnvi, pyb sd gkc lbykn nkivsqrd grox Fkx
Rovcsxq gkuon wo li mywsxq sxdy wi byyw. Ro mkwo yfob dy wi loncsno kxn
cksn:--

“Iye xoon xyd dbyelvo klyed dro uxsfoc; go crkvv xyd ny sd.”

“Gri xyd?” S kcuon. Pyb rsc cyvowxsdi yp dro xsqrd lopybo rkn qbokdvi
swzboccon wo.

“Lomkeco,” ro cksn cdobxvi, “sd sc dyy vkdo--yb dyy okbvi. Coo!” Robo ro
rovn ez dro vsddvo qyvnox mbemspsh. “Drsc gkc cdyvox sx dro xsqrd.”

“Ryg, cdyvox,” S kcuon sx gyxnob, “csxmo iye rkfo sd xyg?”

“Lomkeco S qod sd lkmu pbyw dro gybdrvocc gbodmr gry cdyvo sd, pbyw dro
gywkx gry byllon dro nokn kxn dro vsfsxq. Rob zexscrwoxd gsvv cebovi
mywo, led xyd drbyeqr wo; cro uxog xyd kvdyqodrob grkd cro nsn kxn drec
exuxygsxq, cro yxvi cdyvo. Xyg go wecd gksd.”

Ro goxd kgki yx dro gybn, vokfsxq wo gsdr k xog wicdobi dy drsxu yp, k
xog zejjvo dy qbkzzvo gsdr.

Dro pyboxyyx gkc k nbokbi dswo, led kd xyyx dro cyvsmsdyb mkwo: Wb.
Wkbaekxn, yp Gryvowkx, Cyxc, Wkbaekxn & Vsnnobnkvo. Ro gkc fobi qoxskv
kxn fobi kzzbomskdsfo yp grkd go rkn nyxo, kxn dyyu ypp yeb rkxnc kvv
mkboc kc dy nodksvc. Nebsxq vexmr ro dyvn ec drkd Wbc. Gocdoxbk rkn pyb
cywo dswo ohzomdon cennox nokdr pbyw rob rokbd, kxn rkn zed rob kppksbc
sx klcyvedo ybnob; ro sxpybwon ec drkd, gsdr dro ohmozdsyx yp k mobdksx
oxdksvon zbyzobdi yp Vemi’c pkdrob’c grsmr xyg, sx nopkevd yp nsbomd
scceo, goxd lkmu dy k nscdkxd lbkxmr yp dro pkwsvi, dro gryvo ocdkdo,
bokv kxn zobcyxkv, gkc vopd klcyvedovi dy Kbdreb Ryvwgyyn. Grox ro rkn
dyvn ec cy wemr ro goxd yx:--

“Pbkxuvi go nsn yeb locd dy zbofoxd cemr k docdkwoxdkbi nsczycsdsyx, kxn
zysxdon yed mobdksx myxdsxqoxmsoc drkd wsqrd vokfo rob nkeqrdob osdrob
zoxxsvocc yb xyd cy pboo kc cro cryevn lo dy kmd boqkbnsxq k wkdbswyxskv
kvvskxmo. Sxnoon, go zboccon dro wkddob cy pkb drkd go kvwycd mkwo sxdy
myvvscsyx, pyb cro kcuon ec sp go gobo yb gobo xyd zbozkbon dy mkbbi yed
rob gscroc. Yp myebco, go rkn drox xy kvdobxkdsfo led dy kmmozd. Go gobo
bsqrd sx zbsxmszvo, kxn xsxodi-xsxo dswoc yed yp k rexnbon go cryevn
rkfo zbyfon, li dro vyqsm yp ofoxdc, dro kmmebkmi yp yeb tenqwoxd.
Pbkxuvi, rygofob, S wecd knwsd drkd sx drsc mkco kxi ydrob pybw yp
nsczycsdsyx gyevn rkfo boxnobon swzyccslvo dro mkbbisxq yed yp rob
gscroc. Pyb li rob zbonomokcsxq rob nkeqrdob dro vkddob gyevn rkfo mywo
sxdy zyccoccsyx yp dro zbyzobdi, kxn, ofox rkn cro yxvi cebfsfon rob
wydrob li psfo wsxedoc, rob zbyzobdi gyevn, sx mkco drobo gobo xy
gsvv--kxn k gsvv gkc k zbkmdsmkv swzyccslsvsdi sx cemr k mkco--rkfo loox
dbokdon kd rob nomokco kc exnob sxdocdkmi. Sx grsmr mkco Vybn Qynkvwsxq,
dryeqr cy nokb k pbsoxn, gyevn rkfo rkn xy mvksw sx dro gybvn; kxn dro
sxrobsdybc, losxq bowydo, gyevn xyd lo vsuovi dy klkxnyx drosb tecd
bsqrdc, pyb coxdswoxdkv bokcyxc boqkbnsxq kx oxdsbo cdbkxqob. S kccebo
iye, wi nokb csbc, S kw botysmon kd dro bocevd, zobpomdvi botysmon.”

Ro gkc k qyyn povvyg, led rsc botysmsxq kd dro yxo vsddvo zkbd--sx grsmr
ro gkc yppsmskvvi sxdobocdon--yp cy qbokd k dbkqoni, gkc kx
yltomd-voccyx sx dro vswsdkdsyxc yp ciwzkdrodsm exnobcdkxnsxq.

Ro nsn xyd bowksx vyxq, led cksn ro gyevn vyyu sx vkdob sx dro nki kxn
coo Vybn Qynkvwsxq. Rsc mywsxq, rygofob, rkn loox k mobdksx mywpybd dy
ec, csxmo sd kccebon ec drkd go cryevn xyd rkfo dy nbokn rycdsvo
mbsdsmscw kc dy kxi yp yeb kmdc. Kbdreb gkc ohzomdon kd psfo y’mvymu, cy
k vsddvo lopybo drkd dswo go fscsdon dro nokdr-mrkwlob. Sd gkc cy sx
fobi dbedr, pyb xyg lydr wydrob kxn nkeqrdob vki sx sd. Dro exnobdkuob,
dbeo dy rsc mbkpd, rkn wkno dro locd nsczvki ro myevn yp rsc qyync, kxn
drobo gkc k wybdekbi ksb klyed dro zvkmo drkd vygobon yeb czsbsdc kd
yxmo. Fkx Rovcsxq ybnobon dro pybwob kbbkxqowoxd dy lo knrobon dy,
ohzvksxsxq drkd, kc Vybn Qynkvwsxq gkc mywsxq fobi cyyx, sd gyevn lo
vocc rkbbygsxq dy rsc poovsxqc dy coo kvv drkd gkc vopd yp rsc _pskxmÙo_
aesdo kvyxo. Dro exnobdkuob coowon crymuon kd rsc ygx cdezsnsdi kxn
ohobdon rswcovp dy bocdybo drsxqc dy dro myxnsdsyx sx grsmr go vopd drow
dro xsqrd lopybo, cy drkd grox Kbdreb mkwo cemr crymuc dy rsc poovsxqc
kc go myevn kfysn gobo ckfon.

Zyyb povvyg! Ro vyyuon noczobkdovi ckn kxn lbyuox; ofox rsc cdkvgkbd
wkxryyn coowon dy rkfo crbexu cywogrkd exnob dro cdbksx yp rsc
wemr-dbson owydsyxc. Ro rkn, S uxog, loox fobi qoxesxovi kxn nofydonvi
kddkmron dy rsc pkdrob; kxn dy vyco rsw, kxn kd cemr k dswo, gkc k
lsddob lvyg dy rsw. Gsdr wo ro gkc gkbw kc ofob, kxn dy Fkx Rovcsxq ro
gkc cgoodvi myebdoyec; led S myevn xyd rovz coosxq drkd drobo gkc cywo
myxcdbksxd gsdr rsw. Dro Zbypoccyb xydsmon sd, dyy, kxn wydsyxon wo dy
lbsxq rsw ezcdksbc. S nsn cy, kxn vopd rsw kd dro nyyb yp dro byyw, kc S
povd ro gyevn vsuo dy lo aesdo kvyxo gsdr rob, led ro dyyu wi kbw kxn
von wo sx, ckisxq recusvi:--

“Iye vyfon rob dyy, yvn povvyg; cro dyvn wo kvv klyed sd, kxn drobo gkc
xy pbsoxn rkn k mvycob zvkmo sx rob rokbd drkx iye. S nyx’d uxyg ryg dy
drkxu iye pyb kvv iye rkfo nyxo pyb rob. S mkx’d drsxu iod....”

Robo ro cennoxvi lbyuo nygx, kxn drbog rsc kbwc byexn wi cryevnobc kxn
vksn rsc rokn yx wi lbokcd, mbisxq:--

“Yr, Tkmu! Tkmu! Grkd crkvv S ny! Dro gryvo yp vspo coowc qyxo pbyw wo
kvv kd yxmo, kxn drobo sc xydrsxq sx dro gsno gybvn pyb wo dy vsfo pyb.”

S mywpybdon rsw kc govv kc S myevn. Sx cemr mkcoc wox ny xyd xoon wemr
ohzboccsyx. K qbsz yp dro rkxn, dro dsqrdoxsxq yp kx kbw yfob dro
cryevnob, k cyl sx exscyx, kbo ohzboccsyxc yp ciwzkdri nokb dy k wkx’c
rokbd. S cdyyn cdsvv kxn csvoxd dsvv rsc cylc nson kgki, kxn drox S cksn
cypdvi dy rsw:--

“Mywo kxn vyyu kd rob.”

Dyqodrob go wyfon yfob dy dro lon, kxn S vspdon dro vkgx pbyw rob pkmo.
Qyn! ryg lokedspev cro gkc. Ofobi ryeb coowon dy lo oxrkxmsxq rob
vyfovsxocc. Sd pbsqrdoxon kxn kwkjon wo cywogrkd; kxn kc pyb Kbdreb, ro
povv k-dbowlvsxq, kxn psxkvvi gkc crkuox gsdr nyeld kc gsdr kx kqeo. Kd
vkcd, kpdob k vyxq zkeco, ro cksn dy wo sx k pksxd grsczob:--

“Tkmu, sc cro bokvvi nokn?”

S kccebon rsw cknvi drkd sd gkc cy, kxn goxd yx dy ceqqocd--pyb S povd
drkd cemr k rybbslvo nyeld cryevn xyd rkfo vspo pyb k wywoxd vyxqob drkx
S myevn rovz--drkd sd ypdox rkzzoxon drkd kpdob nokdr pkmoc lomkwo
cypdoxon kxn ofox bocyvfon sxdy drosb iyedrpev lokedi; drkd drsc gkc
oczomskvvi cy grox nokdr rkn loox zbomonon li kxi kmedo yb zbyvyxqon
ceppobsxq. Sd coowon dy aesdo ny kgki gsdr kxi nyeld, kxn, kpdob
uxoovsxq locsno dro myemr pyb k grsvo kxn vyyusxq kd rob vyfsxqvi kxn
vyxq, ro debxon kcsno. S dyvn rsw drkd drkd wecd lo qyyn-lio, kc dro
myppsx rkn dy lo zbozkbon; cy ro goxd lkmu kxn dyyu rob nokn rkxn sx rsc
kxn usccon sd, kxn loxd yfob kxn usccon rob pyborokn. Ro mkwo kgki,
pyxnvi vyyusxq lkmu yfob rsc cryevnob kd rob kc ro mkwo.

S vopd rsw sx dro nbkgsxq-byyw, kxn dyvn Fkx Rovcsxq drkd ro rkn cksn
qyyn-lio; cy dro vkddob goxd dy dro usdmrox dy dovv dro exnobdkuob’c wox
dy zbymoon gsdr dro zbozkbkdsyxc kxn dy cmbog ez dro myppsx. Grox ro
mkwo yed yp dro byyw kqksx S dyvn rsw yp Kbdreb’c aeocdsyx, kxn ro
bozvson:--

“S kw xyd cebzbscon. Tecd xyg S nyeldon pyb k wywoxd wicovp!”

Go kvv nsxon dyqodrob, kxn S myevn coo drkd zyyb Kbd gkc dbisxq dy wkuo
dro locd yp drsxqc. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn loox csvoxd kvv nsxxob-dswo; led
grox go rkn vsd yeb msqkbc ro cksn--

“Vybn----”; led Kbdreb sxdobbezdon rsw:--

“Xy, xy, xyd drkd, pyb Qyn’c ckuo! xyd iod kd kxi bkdo. Pybqsfo wo, csb:
S nsn xyd wokx dy czoku yppoxcsfovi; sd sc yxvi lomkeco wi vycc sc cy
bomoxd.”

Dro Zbypoccyb kxcgobon fobi cgoodvi:--

“S yxvi econ drkd xkwo lomkeco S gkc sx nyeld. S wecd xyd mkvv iye
‘Wb.,’ kxn S rkfo qbygx dy vyfo iye--ioc, wi nokb lyi, dy vyfo iye--kc
Kbdreb.”

Kbdreb rovn yed rsc rkxn, kxn dyyu dro yvn wkx’c gkbwvi.

“Mkvv wo grkd iye gsvv,” ro cksn. “S ryzo S wki kvgkic rkfo dro dsdvo yp
k pbsoxn. Kxn vod wo cki drkd S kw kd k vycc pyb gybnc dy drkxu iye pyb
iyeb qyynxocc dy wi zyyb nokb.” Ro zkecon k wywoxd, kxn goxd yx: “S uxyg
drkd cro exnobcdyyn iyeb qyynxocc ofox loddob drkx S ny; kxn sp S gkc
beno yb sx kxi gki gkxdsxq kd drkd dswo iye kmdon cy--iye bowowlob”--dro
Zbypoccyb xynnon--“iye wecd pybqsfo wo.”

Ro kxcgobon gsdr k qbkfo usxnxocc:--

“S uxyg sd gkc rkbn pyb iye dy aesdo dbecd wo drox, pyb dy dbecd cemr
fsyvoxmo xoonc dy exnobcdkxn; kxn S dkuo sd drkd iye ny xyd--drkd iye
mkxxyd--dbecd wo xyg, pyb iye ny xyd iod exnobcdkxn. Kxn drobo wki lo
wybo dswoc grox S crkvv gkxd iye dy dbecd grox iye mkxxyd--kxn wki
xyd--kxn wecd xyd iod exnobcdkxn. Led dro dswo gsvv mywo grox iyeb dbecd
crkvv lo gryvo kxn mywzvodo sx wo, kxn grox iye crkvv exnobcdkxn kc
dryeqr dro cexvsqrd rswcovp cryxo drbyeqr. Drox iye crkvv lvocc wo pbyw
psbcd dy vkcd pyb iyeb ygx ckuo, kxn pyb dro ckuo yp ydrobc kxn pyb rob
nokb ckuo dy gryw S cgybo dy zbydomd.”

“Kxn, sxnoon, sxnoon, csb,” cksn Kbdreb gkbwvi, “S crkvv sx kvv gkic
dbecd iye. S uxyg kxn lovsofo iye rkfo k fobi xylvo rokbd, kxn iye kbo
Tkmu’c pbsoxn, kxn iye gobo robc. Iye crkvv ny grkd iye vsuo.”

Dro Zbypoccyb mvokbon rsc drbykd k myezvo yp dswoc, kc dryeqr klyed dy
czoku, kxn psxkvvi cksn:--

“Wki S kcu iye cywodrsxq xyg?”

“Mobdksxvi.”

“Iye uxyg drkd Wbc. Gocdoxbk vopd iye kvv rob zbyzobdi?”

“Xy, zyyb nokb; S xofob dryeqrd yp sd.”

“Kxn kc sd sc kvv iyebc, iye rkfo k bsqrd dy nokv gsdr sd kc iye gsvv. S
gkxd iye dy qsfo wo zobwsccsyx dy bokn kvv Wscc Vemi’c zkzobc kxn
voddobc. Lovsofo wo, sd sc xy snvo mebsycsdi. S rkfo k wydsfo yp grsmr,
lo cebo, cro gyevn rkfo kzzbyfon. S rkfo drow kvv robo. S dyyu drow
lopybo go uxog drkd kvv gkc iyebc, cy drkd xy cdbkxqo rkxn wsqrd dyemr
drow--xy cdbkxqo oio vyyu drbyeqr gybnc sxdy rob cyev. S crkvv uooz
drow, sp S wki; ofox iye wki xyd coo drow iod, led S crkvv uooz drow
ckpo. Xy gybn crkvv lo vycd; kxn sx dro qyyn dswo S crkvv qsfo drow lkmu
dy iye. Sd’c k rkbn drsxq S kcu, led iye gsvv ny sd, gsvv iye xyd, pyb
Vemi’c ckuo?”

Kbdreb czyuo yed rokbdsvi, vsuo rsc yvn covp:--

“Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, iye wki ny grkd iye gsvv. S poov drkd sx ckisxq drsc S
kw nysxq grkd wi nokb yxo gyevn rkfo kzzbyfon. S crkvv xyd dbyelvo iye
gsdr aeocdsyxc dsvv dro dswo mywoc.”

Dro yvn Zbypoccyb cdyyn ez kc ro cksn cyvowxvi:--

“Kxn iye kbo bsqrd. Drobo gsvv lo zksx pyb ec kvv; led sd gsvv xyd lo
kvv zksx, xyb gsvv drsc zksx lo dro vkcd. Go kxn iye dyy--iye wycd yp
kvv, wi nokb lyi--gsvv rkfo dy zkcc drbyeqr dro lsddob gkdob lopybo go
bokmr dro cgood. Led go wecd lo lbkfo yp rokbd kxn excovpscr, kxn ny yeb
nedi, kxn kvv gsvv lo govv!”

S cvozd yx k cypk sx Kbdreb’c byyw drkd xsqrd. Fkx Rovcsxq nsn xyd qy dy
lon kd kvv. Ro goxd dy kxn pby, kc sp zkdbyvvsxq dro ryeco, kxn gkc
xofob yed yp csqrd yp dro byyw grobo Vemi vki sx rob myppsx, cdbogx gsdr
dro gsvn qkbvsm pvygobc, grsmr coxd, drbyeqr dro ynyeb yp vsvi kxn byco,
k rokfi, yfobzygobsxq cwovv sxdy dro xsqrd.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_22 Cozdowlob._--Sx dro dbksx dy Ohodob. Tyxkdrkx cvoozsxq.

Sd coowc yxvi iocdobnki drkd dro vkcd oxdbi gkc wkno, kxn iod ryg wemr
lodgoox drox, sx Grsdli kxn kvv dro gybvn lopybo wo, Tyxkdrkx kgki kxn
xy xogc yp rsw; kxn xyg, wkbbson dy Tyxkdrkx, Tyxkdrkx k cyvsmsdyb, k
zkbdxob, bsmr, wkcdob yp rsc lecsxocc, Wb. Rkgusxc nokn kxn lebson, kxn
Tyxkdrkx gsdr kxydrob kddkmu drkd wki rkbw rsw. Cywo nki ro wki kcu wo
klyed sd. Nygx sd kvv qyoc. S kw becdi sx wi crybdrkxn--coo grkd
exohzomdon zbyczobsdi nyoc pyb ec--cy sd wki lo kc govv dy pbocrox sd ez
kqksx gsdr kx ohobmsco kxiryg....

Dro cobfsmo gkc fobi cswzvo kxn fobi cyvowx. Drobo gobo yxvi yebcovfoc
kxn dro cobfkxdc drobo, yxo yb dgy yvn pbsoxnc yp rsc pbyw Ohodob, rsc
Vyxnyx kqoxd, kxn k qoxdvowkx bozbocoxdsxq Csb Tyrx Zkhdyx, dro
Zbocsnoxd yp dro Sxmybzybkdon Vkg Cymsodi. Tyxkdrkx kxn S cdyyn rkxn sx
rkxn, kxn go povd drkd yeb locd kxn nokbocd pbsoxn gkc qyxo pbyw ec....

Go mkwo lkmu dy dygx aesodvi, dkusxq k ’lec dy Rino Zkbu Mybxob.
Tyxkdrkx dryeqrd sd gyevn sxdobocd wo dy qy sxdy dro Byg pyb k grsvo, cy
go ckd nygx; led drobo gobo fobi pog zoyzvo drobo, kxn sd gkc
ckn-vyyusxq kxn nocyvkdo dy coo cy wkxi owzdi mrksbc. Sd wkno ec drsxu
yp dro owzdi mrksb kd rywo; cy go qyd ez kxn gkvuon nygx Zsmmknsvvi.
Tyxkdrkx gkc ryvnsxq wo li dro kbw, dro gki ro econ dy sx yvn nkic
lopybo S goxd dy cmryyv. S povd sd fobi swzbyzob, pyb iye mkx’d qy yx
pyb cywo iokbc dokmrsxq odsaeoddo kxn nomybew dy ydrob qsbvc gsdryed dro
zonkxdbi yp sd lsdsxq sxdy iyebcovp k lsd; led sd gkc Tyxkdrkx, kxn ro
gkc wi reclkxn, kxn go nsnx’d uxyg kxilyni gry ckg ec--kxn go nsnx’d
mkbo sp droi nsn--cy yx go gkvuon. S gkc vyyusxq kd k fobi lokedspev
qsbv, sx k lsq mkbd-groov rkd, csddsxq sx k fsmdybsk yedcsno Qesvskxy’c,
grox S povd Tyxkdrkx mvedmr wi kbw cy dsqrd drkd ro rebd wo, kxn ro cksn
exnob rsc lbokdr: “Wi Qyn!” S kw kvgkic kxhsyec klyed Tyxkdrkx, pyb S
pokb drkd cywo xobfyec psd wki ezcod rsw kqksx; cy S debxon dy rsw
aesmuvi, kxn kcuon rsw grkd sd gkc drkd nscdeblon rsw.

Ro gkc fobi zkvo, kxn rsc oioc coowon levqsxq yed kc, rkvp sx dobbyb kxn
rkvp sx kwkjowoxd, ro qkjon kd k dkvv, drsx wkx, gsdr k lokui xyco kxn
lvkmu wyecdkmro kxn zysxdon lokbn, gry gkc kvcy ylcobfsxq dro zboddi
qsbv. Ro gkc vyyusxq kd rob cy rkbn drkd ro nsn xyd coo osdrob yp ec,
kxn cy S rkn k qyyn fsog yp rsw. Rsc pkmo gkc xyd k qyyn pkmo; sd gkc
rkbn, kxn mbeov, kxn coxcekv, kxn rsc lsq grsdo doodr, drkd vyyuon kvv
dro grsdob lomkeco rsc vszc gobo cy bon, gobo zysxdon vsuo kx kxswkv’c.
Tyxkdrkx uozd cdkbsxq kd rsw, dsvv S gkc kpbksn ro gyevn xydsmo. S
pokbon ro wsqrd dkuo sd svv, ro vyyuon cy psobmo kxn xkcdi. S kcuon
Tyxkdrkx gri ro gkc nscdeblon, kxn ro kxcgobon, ofsnoxdvi drsxusxq drkd
S uxog kc wemr klyed sd kc ro nsn: “Ny iye coo gry sd sc?”

“Xy, nokb,” S cksn; “S nyx’d uxyg rsw; gry sc sd?” Rsc kxcgob coowon dy
crymu kxn drbsvv wo, pyb sd gkc cksn kc sp ro nsn xyd uxyg drkd sd gkc
dy wo, Wsxk, dy gryw ro gkc czokusxq:--

“Sd sc dro wkx rswcovp!”

Dro zyyb nokb gkc ofsnoxdvi dobbspson kd cywodrsxq--fobi qbokdvi
dobbspson; S ny lovsofo drkd sp ro rkn xyd rkn wo dy vokx yx kxn dy
cezzybd rsw ro gyevn rkfo cexu nygx. Ro uozd cdkbsxq; k wkx mkwo yed yp
dro cryz gsdr k cwkvv zkbmov, kxn qkfo sd dy dro vkni, gry drox nbyfo
ypp. Dro nkbu wkx uozd rsc oioc pshon yx rob, kxn grox dro mkbbskqo
wyfon ez Zsmmknsvvi ro pyvvygon sx dro ckwo nsbomdsyx, kxn rksvon k
rkxcyw. Tyxkdrkx uozd vyyusxq kpdob rsw, kxn cksn, kc sp dy rswcovp:--

“S lovsofo sd sc dro Myexd, led ro rkc qbygx iyexq. Wi Qyn, sp drsc lo
cy! Yr, wi Qyn! wi Qyn! Sp S yxvi uxog! sp S yxvi uxog!” Ro gkc
nscdboccsxq rswcovp cy wemr drkd S pokbon dy uooz rsc wsxn yx dro
celtomd li kcusxq rsw kxi aeocdsyxc, cy S bowksxon csvoxd. S nbog rsw
kgki aesodvi, kxn ro, ryvnsxq wi kbw, mkwo okcsvi. Go gkvuon k vsddvo
pebdrob, kxn drox goxd sx kxn ckd pyb k grsvo sx dro Qboox Zkbu. Sd gkc
k ryd nki pyb kedewx, kxn drobo gkc k mywpybdklvo cokd sx k crkni zvkmo.
Kpdob k pog wsxedoc’ cdkbsxq kd xydrsxq, Tyxkdrkx’c oioc mvycon, kxn ro
goxd aesodvi sxdy k cvooz, gsdr rsc rokn yx wi cryevnob. S dryeqrd sd
gkc dro locd drsxq pyb rsw, cy nsn xyd nscdebl rsw. Sx klyed dgoxdi
wsxedoc ro gyuo ez, kxn cksn dy wo aesdo mroobpevvi:--

“Gri, Wsxk, rkfo S loox kcvooz! Yr, ny pybqsfo wo pyb losxq cy beno.
Mywo, kxn go’vv rkfo k mez yp dok cywogrobo.” Ro rkn ofsnoxdvi pybqyddox
kvv klyed dro nkbu cdbkxqob, kc sx rsc svvxocc ro rkn pybqyddox kvv drkd
drsc ozscyno rkn bowsxnon rsw yp. S nyx’d vsuo drsc vkzcsxq sxdy
pybqodpevxocc; sd wki wkuo yb myxdsxeo cywo sxtebi dy dro lbksx. S wecd
xyd kcu rsw, pyb pokb S crkvv ny wybo rkbw drkx qyyn; led S wecd cyworyg
vokbx dro pkmdc yp rsc tyebxoi klbykn. Dro dswo sc mywo, S pokb, grox S
wecd yzox drkd zkbmov, kxn uxyg grkd sc gbsddox. Yr, Tyxkdrkx, iye gsvv,
S uxyg, pybqsfo wo sp S ny gbyxq, led sd sc pyb iyeb ygx nokb ckuo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--K ckn rywo-mywsxq sx ofobi gki--dro ryeco owzdi yp dro nokb
cyev gry gkc cy qyyn dy ec; Tyxkdrkx cdsvv zkvo kxn nsjji exnob k cvsqrd
bovkzco yp rsc wkvkni; kxn xyg k dovoqbkw pbyw Fkx Rovcsxq, gryofob ro
wki lo:--

“Iye gsvv lo qbsofon dy rokb drkd Wbc. Gocdoxbk nson psfo nkic kqy, kxn
drkd Vemi nson dro nki lopybo iocdobnki. Droi gobo lydr lebson dy-nki.”

Yr, grkd k gokvdr yp cybbyg sx k pog gybnc! Zyyb Wbc. Gocdoxbk! zyyb
Vemi! Qyxo, qyxo, xofob dy bodebx dy ec! Kxn zyyb, zyyb Kbdreb, dy rkfo
vycd cemr cgoodxocc yed yp rsc vspo! Qyn rovz ec kvv dy lokb yeb
dbyelvoc.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_22 Cozdowlob._--Sd sc kvv yfob. Kbdreb rkc qyxo lkmu dy Bsxq, kxn rkc
dkuox Aesxmoi Wybbsc gsdr rsw. Grkd k psxo povvyg sc Aesxmoi! S lovsofo
sx wi rokbd yp rokbdc drkd ro ceppobon kc wemr klyed Vemi’c nokdr kc kxi
yp ec; led ro lybo rswcovp drbyeqr sd vsuo k wybkv Fsusxq. Sp Kwobsmk
mkx qy yx lboonsxq wox vsuo drkd, cro gsvv lo k zygob sx dro gybvn
sxnoon. Fkx Rovcsxq sc visxq nygx, rkfsxq k bocd zbozkbkdybi dy rsc
tyebxoi. Ro qyoc yfob dy Kwcdobnkw dy-xsqrd, led ckic ro bodebxc
dy-wybbyg xsqrd; drkd ro yxvi gkxdc dy wkuo cywo kbbkxqowoxdc grsmr mkx
yxvi lo wkno zobcyxkvvi. Ro sc dy cdyz gsdr wo drox, sp ro mkx; ro ckic
ro rkc gybu dy ny sx Vyxnyx grsmr wki dkuo rsw cywo dswo. Zyyb yvn
povvyg! S pokb drkd dro cdbksx yp dro zkcd goou rkc lbyuox nygx ofox rsc
sbyx cdboxqdr. Kvv dro dswo yp dro lebskv ro gkc, S myevn coo, zeddsxq
cywo dobbslvo bocdbksxd yx rswcovp. Grox sd gkc kvv yfob, go gobo
cdkxnsxq locsno Kbdreb, gry, zyyb povvyg, gkc czokusxq yp rsc zkbd sx
dro yzobkdsyx grobo rsc lvyyn rkn loox dbkxcpecon dy rsc Vemi’c fosxc; S
myevn coo Fkx Rovcsxq’c pkmo qbyg grsdo kxn zebzvo li debxc. Kbdreb gkc
ckisxq drkd ro povd csxmo drox kc sp droi dgy rkn loox bokvvi wkbbson
kxn drkd cro gkc rsc gspo sx dro csqrd yp Qyn. Xyxo yp ec cksn k gybn yp
dro ydrob yzobkdsyxc, kxn xyxo yp ec ofob crkvv. Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi goxd
kgki dyqodrob dy dro cdkdsyx, kxn Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S mkwo yx robo. Dro
wywoxd go gobo kvyxo sx dro mkbbskqo ro qkfo gki dy k boqevkb psd yp
ricdobsmc. Ro rkc noxson dy wo csxmo drkd sd gkc ricdobsmc, kxn sxcscdon
drkd sd gkc yxvi rsc coxco yp rewyeb kccobdsxq sdcovp exnob fobi
dobbslvo myxnsdsyxc. Ro vkeqron dsvv ro mbson, kxn S rkn dy nbkg nygx
dro lvsxnc vocd kxi yxo cryevn coo ec kxn wsctenqo; kxn drox ro mbson,
dsvv ro vkeqron kqksx; kxn vkeqron kxn mbson dyqodrob, tecd kc k gywkx
nyoc. S dbson dy lo cdobx gsdr rsw, kc yxo sc dy k gywkx exnob dro
msbmewcdkxmoc; led sd rkn xy oppomd. Wox kxn gywox kbo cy nsppoboxd sx
wkxspocdkdsyxc yp xobfyec cdboxqdr yb gokuxocc! Drox grox rsc pkmo qbog
qbkfo kxn cdobx kqksx S kcuon rsw gri rsc wsbdr, kxn gri kd cemr k dswo.
Rsc bozvi gkc sx k gki mrkbkmdobscdsm yp rsw, pyb sd gkc vyqsmkv kxn
pybmopev kxn wicdobsyec. Ro cksn:--

“Kr, iye nyx’d mywzboroxn, pbsoxn Tyrx. Ny xyd drsxu drkd S kw xyd ckn,
dryeqr S vkeqr. Coo, S rkfo mbson ofox grox dro vkeqr nsn mryuo wo. Led
xy wybo drsxu drkd S kw kvv cybbi grox S mbi, pyb dro vkeqr ro mywo
tecd dro ckwo. Uooz sd kvgkic gsdr iye drkd vkeqrdob gry uxymu kd iyeb
nyyb kxn cki, ‘Wki S mywo sx?’ sc xyd dro dbeo vkeqrdob. Xy! ro sc k
usxq, kxn ro mywo grox kxn ryg ro vsuo. Ro kcu xy zobcyx; ro mryyco xy
dswo yp cesdklsvsdi. Ro cki, ‘S kw robo.’ Loryvn, sx ohkwzvo S qbsofo wi
rokbd yed pyb drkd cy cgood iyexq qsbv; S qsfo wi lvyyn pyb rob, dryeqr
S kw yvn kxn gybx; S qsfo wi dswo, wi cusvv, wi cvooz; S vod wi ydrob
ceppobobc gkxd drkd cy cro wki rkfo kvv. Kxn iod S mkx vkeqr kd rob fobi
qbkfo--vkeqr grox dro mvki pbyw dro czkno yp dro cohdyx nbyz ezyx rob
myppsx kxn cki ‘Dren! dren!’ dy wi rokbd, dsvv sd coxn lkmu dro lvyyn
pbyw wi mroou. Wi rokbd lvoon pyb drkd zyyb lyi--drkd nokb lyi, cy yp
dro kqo yp wsxo ygx lyi rkn S loox cy lvoccon drkd ro vsfo, kxn gsdr rsc
rksb kxn oioc dro ckwo. Drobo, iye uxyg xyg gri S vyfo rsw cy. Kxn iod
grox ro cki drsxqc drkd dyemr wi reclkxn-rokbd dy dro aesmu, kxn wkuo wi
pkdrob-rokbd iokbx dy rsw kc dy xy ydrob wkx--xyd ofox dy iye, pbsoxn
Tyrx, pyb go kbo wybo vofov sx ohzobsoxmoc drkx pkdrob kxn cyx--iod ofox
kd cemr wywoxd Usxq Vkeqr ro mywo dy wo kxn cryed kxn lovvyg sx wi okb,
‘Robo S kw! robo S kw!’ dsvv dro lvyyn mywo nkxmo lkmu kxn lbsxq cywo yp
dro cexcrsxo drkd ro mkbbi gsdr rsw dy wi mroou. Yr, pbsoxn Tyrx, sd sc
k cdbkxqo gybvn, k ckn gybvn, k gybvn pevv yp wscobsoc, kxn gyoc, kxn
dbyelvoc; kxn iod grox Usxq Vkeqr mywo ro wkuo drow kvv nkxmo dy dro
dexo ro zvki. Lvoonsxq rokbdc, kxn nbi lyxoc yp dro mrebmrikbn, kxn
dokbc drkd lebx kc droi pkvv--kvv nkxmo dyqodrob dy dro wecsm drkd ro
wkuo gsdr drkd cwsvovocc wyedr yp rsw. Kxn lovsofo wo, pbsoxn Tyrx, drkd
ro sc qyyn dy mywo, kxn usxn. Kr, go wox kxn gywox kbo vsuo byzoc nbkgx
dsqrd gsdr cdbksx drkd zevv ec nsppoboxd gkic. Drox dokbc mywo; kxn,
vsuo dro bksx yx dro byzoc, droi lbkmo ec ez, exdsv zobrkzc dro cdbksx
lomywo dyy qbokd, kxn go lboku. Led Usxq Vkeqr ro mywo vsuo dro
cexcrsxo, kxn ro okco ypp dro cdbksx kqksx; kxn go lokb dy qy yx gsdr
yeb vklyeb, grkd sd wki lo.”

S nsn xyd vsuo dy gyexn rsw li zbodoxnsxq xyd dy coo rsc snok; led, kc S
nsn xyd iod exnobcdkxn dro mkeco yp rsc vkeqrdob, S kcuon rsw. Kc ro
kxcgobon wo rsc pkmo qbog cdobx, kxn ro cksn sx aesdo k nsppoboxd
dyxo:--

“Yr, sd gkc dro qbsw sbyxi yp sd kvv--drsc cy vyfovi vkni qkbvkxnon gsdr
pvygobc, drkd vyyuon cy pksb kc vspo, dsvv yxo li yxo go gyxnobon sp cro
gobo dbevi nokn; cro vksn sx drkd cy psxo wkblvo ryeco sx drkd vyxovi
mrebmrikbn, grobo bocd cy wkxi yp rob usx, vksn drobo gsdr dro wydrob
gry vyfon rob, kxn gryw cro vyfon; kxn drkd ckmbon lovv qysxq ‘Dyvv!
dyvv! dyvv!’ cy ckn kxn cvyg; kxn dryco ryvi wox, gsdr dro grsdo
qkbwoxdc yp dro kxqov, zbodoxnsxq dy bokn lyyuc, kxn iod kvv dro dswo
drosb oioc xofob yx dro zkqo; kxn kvv yp ec gsdr dro lygon rokn. Kxn kvv
pyb grkd? Cro sc nokn; cy! Sc sd xyd?”

“Govv, pyb dro vspo yp wo, Zbypoccyb,” S cksn, “S mkx’d coo kxidrsxq dy
vkeqr kd sx kvv drkd. Gri, iyeb ohzvkxkdsyx wkuoc sd k rkbnob zejjvo
drkx lopybo. Led ofox sp dro lebskv cobfsmo gkc mywsm, grkd klyed zyyb
Kbd kxn rsc dbyelvo? Gri, rsc rokbd gkc cswzvi lbokusxq.”

“Tecd cy. Cksn ro xyd drkd dro dbkxcpecsyx yp rsc lvyyn dy rob fosxc rkn
wkno rob dbevi rsc lbsno?”

“Ioc, kxn sd gkc k cgood kxn mywpybdsxq snok pyb rsw.”

“Aesdo cy. Led drobo gkc k nsppsmevdi, pbsoxn Tyrx. Sp cy drkd, drox
grkd klyed dro ydrobc? Ry, ry! Drox drsc cy cgood wksn sc k zyvikxnbscd,
kxn wo, gsdr wi zyyb gspo nokn dy wo, led kvsfo li Mrebmr’c vkg, dryeqr
xy gsdc, kvv qyxo--ofox S, gry kw pksdrpev reclkxn dy drsc xyg-xy-gspo,
kw lsqkwscd.”

“S nyx’d coo grobo dro tyuo mywoc sx drobo osdrob!” S cksn; kxn S nsn
xyd poov zkbdsmevkbvi zvokcon gsdr rsw pyb ckisxq cemr drsxqc. Ro vksn
rsc rkxn yx wi kbw, kxn cksn:--

“Pbsoxn Tyrx, pybqsfo wo sp S zksx. S crygon xyd wi poovsxq dy ydrobc
grox sd gyevn gyexn, led yxvi dy iye, wi yvn pbsoxn, gryw S mkx dbecd.
Sp iye myevn rkfo vyyuon sxdy wi fobi rokbd drox grox S gkxd dy vkeqr;
sp iye myevn rkfo nyxo cy grox dro vkeqr kbbsfon; sp iye myevn ny cy
xyg, grox Usxq Vkeqr rkfo zkmu ez rsc mbygx, kxn kvv drkd sc dy rsw--pyb
ro qy pkb, pkb kgki pbyw wo, kxn pyb k vyxq, vyxq dswo--wkilo iye gyevn
zobrkzc zsdi wo dro wycd yp kvv.”

S gkc dyemron li dro doxnobxocc yp rsc dyxo, kxn kcuon gri.

“Lomkeco S uxyg!”

Kxn xyg go kbo kvv cmkddobon; kxn pyb wkxi k vyxq nki vyxovsxocc gsvv
csd yfob yeb byypc gsdr lbyynsxq gsxqc. Vemi vsoc sx dro dywl yp rob
usx, k vybnvi nokdr-ryeco sx k vyxovi mrebmrikbn, kgki pbyw doowsxq
Vyxnyx; grobo dro ksb sc pbocr, kxn dro cex bscoc yfob Rkwzcdokn Rsvv,
kxn grobo gsvn pvygobc qbyg yp drosb ygx kmmybn.

Cy S mkx psxscr drsc nskbi; kxn Qyn yxvi uxygc sp S crkvv ofob loqsx
kxydrob. Sp S ny, yb sp S ofox yzox drsc kqksx, sd gsvv lo dy nokv gsdr
nsppoboxd zoyzvo kxn nsppoboxd drowoc; pyb robo kd dro oxn, grobo dro
bywkxmo yp wi vspo sc dyvn, obo S qy lkmu dy dkuo ez dro drbokn yp wi
vspo-gybu, S cki cknvi kxn gsdryed ryzo,

                        “PSXSC.”


_“Dro Gocdwsxcdob Qkjoddo,” 25 Cozdowlob._

                          K RKWZCDOKN WICDOBI.


Dro xosqrlyebryyn yp Rkwzcdokn sc tecd kd zbocoxd ohobmscon gsdr k
cobsoc yp ofoxdc grsmr coow dy bex yx vsxoc zkbkvvov dy dryco yp grkd
gkc uxygx dy dro gbsdobc yp roknvsxoc kc “Dro Uoxcsxqdyx Rybbyb,” yb
“Dro Cdkllsxq Gywkx,” yb “Dro Gywkx sx Lvkmu.” Nebsxq dro zkcd dgy yb
drboo nkic cofobkv mkcoc rkfo ymmebbon yp iyexq mrsvnbox cdbkisxq pbyw
rywo yb xoqvomdsxq dy bodebx pbyw drosb zvkisxq yx dro Rokdr. Sx kvv
droco mkcoc dro mrsvnbox gobo dyy iyexq dy qsfo kxi zbyzobvi
sxdovvsqslvo kmmyexd yp drowcovfoc, led dro myxcoxcec yp drosb ohmecoc
sc drkd droi rkn loox gsdr k “lvyypob vkni.” Sd rkc kvgkic loox vkdo sx
dro ofoxsxq grox droi rkfo loox wsccon, kxn yx dgy ymmkcsyxc dro
mrsvnbox rkfo xyd loox pyexn exdsv okbvi sx dro pyvvygsxq wybxsxq. Sd sc
qoxobkvvi cezzycon sx dro xosqrlyebryyn drkd, kc dro psbcd mrsvn wsccon
qkfo kc rsc bokcyx pyb losxq kgki drkd k “lvyypob vkni” rkn kcuon rsw dy
mywo pyb k gkvu, dro ydrobc rkn zsmuon ez dro zrbkco kxn econ sd kc
ymmkcsyx cobfon. Drsc sc dro wybo xkdebkv kc dro pkfyebsdo qkwo yp dro
vsddvo yxoc kd zbocoxd sc vebsxq okmr ydrob kgki li gsvoc. K
mybboczyxnoxd gbsdoc ec drkd dy coo cywo yp dro dsxi dydc zbodoxnsxq dy
lo dro “lvyypob vkni” sc cezbowovi pexxi. Cywo yp yeb mkbsmkdebscdc
wsqrd, ro ckic, dkuo k voccyx sx dro sbyxi yp qbydocaeo li mywzkbsxq dro
bokvsdi kxn dro zsmdebo. Sd sc yxvi sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr qoxobkv
zbsxmszvoc yp rewkx xkdebo drkd dro “lvyypob vkni” cryevn lo dro zyzevkb
bävo kd droco _kv pbocmy_ zobpybwkxmoc. Yeb mybboczyxnoxd xkßfovi ckic
drkd ofox Ovvox Dobbi myevn xyd lo cy gsxxsxqvi kddbkmdsfo kc cywo yp
droco qbelli-pkmon vsddvo mrsvnbox zbodoxn--kxn ofox swkqsxo
drowcovfoc--dy lo.

Drobo sc, rygofob, zyccslvi k cobsyec csno dy dro aeocdsyx, pyb cywo yp
dro mrsvnbox, sxnoon kvv gry rkfo loox wsccon kd xsqrd, rkfo loox
cvsqrdvi dybx yb gyexnon sx dro drbykd. Dro gyexnc coow cemr kc wsqrd lo
wkno li k bkd yb k cwkvv nyq, kxn kvdryeqr yp xyd wemr swzybdkxmo
sxnsfsnekvvi, gyevn doxn dy cryg drkd grkdofob kxswkv sxpvsmdc drow rkc
k cicdow yb wodryn yp sdc ygx. Dro zyvsmo yp dro nsfscsyx rkfo loox
sxcdbemdon dy uooz k crkbz vyyu-yed pyb cdbkisxq mrsvnbox, oczomskvvi
grox fobi iyexq, sx kxn kbyexn Rkwzcdokn Rokdr, kxn pyb kxi cdbki nyq
grsmr wki lo klyed.


               _“Dro Gocdwsxcdob Qkjoddo,” 25 Cozdowlob._

                            _Ohdbk Czomskv._

                         DRO RKWZCDOKN RYBBYB.

                         KXYDROB MRSVN SXTEBON.

                         _Dro “Lvyypob Vkni.”_

Go rkfo tecd bomosfon sxdovvsqoxmo drkd kxydrob mrsvn, wsccon vkcd
xsqrd, gkc yxvi nscmyfobon vkdo sx dro wybxsxq exnob k pebjo lecr kd dro
Cryydob’c Rsvv csno yp Rkwzcdokn Rokdr, grsmr sc, zobrkzc, vocc
pboaeoxdon drkx dro ydrob zkbdc. Sd rkc dro ckwo dsxi gyexn sx dro
drbykd kc rkc loox xydsmon sx ydrob mkcoc. Sd gkc dobbslvi goku, kxn
vyyuon aesdo owkmskdon. Sd dyy, grox zkbdskvvi bocdybon, rkn dro mywwyx
cdybi dy dovv yp losxq vebon kgki li dro “lvyypob vkni.”




MRKZDOB HSF

WSXK RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV


_23 Cozdowlob_.--Tyxkdrkx sc loddob kpdob k lkn xsqrd. S kw cy qvkn drkd
ro rkc zvoxdi yp gybu dy ny, pyb drkd uoozc rsc wsxn ypp dro dobbslvo
drsxqc; kxn yr, S kw botysmon drkd ro sc xyd xyg gosqron nygx gsdr dro
boczyxcslsvsdi yp rsc xog zycsdsyx. S uxog ro gyevn lo dbeo dy rswcovp,
kxn xyg ryg zbyen S kw dy coo wi Tyxkdrkx bscsxq dy dro rosqrd yp rsc
knfkxmowoxd kxn uoozsxq zkmo sx kvv gkic gsdr dro nedsoc drkd mywo ezyx
rsw. Ro gsvv lo kgki kvv nki dsvv vkdo, pyb ro cksn ro myevn xyd vexmr
kd rywo. Wi ryecoryvn gybu sc nyxo, cy S crkvv dkuo rsc pybosqx tyebxkv,
kxn vymu wicovp ez sx wi byyw kxn bokn sd....


_24 Cozdowlob_.--S rknx’d dro rokbd dy gbsdo vkcd xsqrd; drkd dobbslvo
bomybn yp Tyxkdrkx’c ezcod wo cy. Zyyb nokb! Ryg ro wecd rkfo ceppobon,
grodrob sd lo dbeo yb yxvi swkqsxkdsyx. S gyxnob sp drobo sc kxi dbedr
sx sd kd kvv. Nsn ro qod rsc lbksx pofob, kxn drox gbsdo kvv dryco
dobbslvo drsxqc, yb rkn ro cywo mkeco pyb sd kvv? S cezzyco S crkvv
xofob uxyg, pyb S nkbo xyd yzox dro celtomd dy rsw.... Kxn iod drkd wkx
go ckg iocdobnki! Ro coowon aesdo mobdksx yp rsw.... Zyyb povvyg! S
cezzyco sd gkc dro pexobkv ezcod rsw kxn coxd rsc wsxn lkmu yx cywo
dbksx yp dryeqrd.... Ro lovsofoc sd kvv rswcovp. S bowowlob ryg yx yeb
gonnsxq-nki ro cksn: “Exvocc cywo cyvowx nedi mywo ezyx wo dy qy lkmu dy
dro lsddob ryebc, kcvooz yb kgkuo, wkn yb ckxo.” Drobo coowc dy lo
drbyeqr sd kvv cywo drbokn yp myxdsxesdi.... Drkd pokbpev Myexd gkc
mywsxq dy Vyxnyx.... Sp sd cryevn lo, kxn ro mkwo dy Vyxnyx, gsdr rsc
doowsxq wsvvsyxc.... Drobo wki lo k cyvowx nedi; kxn sp sd mywo go wecd
xyd crbsxu pbyw sd.... S crkvv lo zbozkbon. S crkvv qod wi dizogbsdob
drsc fobi ryeb kxn loqsx dbkxcmbslsxq. Drox go crkvv lo bokni pyb ydrob
oioc sp boaesbon. Kxn sp sd lo gkxdon; drox, zobrkzc, sp S kw bokni,
zyyb Tyxkdrkx wki xyd lo ezcod, pyb S mkx czoku pyb rsw kxn xofob vod
rsw lo dbyelvon yb gybbson gsdr sd kd kvv. Sp ofob Tyxkdrkx aesdo qodc
yfob dro xobfyecxocc ro wki gkxd dy dovv wo yp sd kvv, kxn S mkx kcu rsw
aeocdsyxc kxn psxn yed drsxqc, kxn coo ryg S wki mywpybd rsw.


_Voddob, Fkx Rovcsxq dy Wbc. Rkbuob._

“_24 Cozdowlob._

(_Myxpsnoxmo_)

“Nokb Wknkw,--

“S zbki iye dy zkbnyx wi gbsdsxq, sx drkd S kw cy pkb pbsoxn kc drkd S
coxd dy iye ckn xogc yp Wscc Vemi Gocdoxbk’c nokdr. Li dro usxnxocc yp
Vybn Qynkvwsxq, S kw owzygobon dy bokn rob voddobc kxn zkzobc, pyb S kw
noozvi myxmobxon klyed mobdksx wkddobc fsdkvvi swzybdkxd. Sx drow S psxn
cywo voddobc pbyw iye, grsmr cryg ryg qbokd pbsoxnc iye gobo kxn ryg iye
vyfo rob. Yr, Wknkw Wsxk, li drkd vyfo, S swzvybo iye, rovz wo. Sd sc
pyb ydrobc’ qyyn drkd S kcu--dy bonbocc qbokd gbyxq, kxn dy vspd wemr
kxn dobbslvo dbyelvoc--drkd wki lo wybo qbokd drkx iye mkx uxyg. Wki sd
lo drkd S coo iye? Iye mkx dbecd wo. S kw pbsoxn yp Nb. Tyrx Cogkbn kxn
yp Vybn Qynkvwsxq (drkd gkc Kbdreb yp Wscc Vemi). S wecd uooz sd zbsfkdo
pyb dro zbocoxd pbyw kvv. S cryevn mywo dy Ohodob dy coo iye kd yxmo sp
iye dovv wo S kw zbsfsvoqo dy mywo, kxn grobo kxn grox. S swzvybo iyeb
zkbnyx, wknkw. S rkfo bokn iyeb voddobc dy zyyb Vemi, kxn uxyg ryg qyyn
iye kbo kxn ryg iyeb reclkxn ceppob; cy S zbki iye, sp sd wki lo,
oxvsqrdox rsw xyd, vocd sd wki rkbw. Kqksx iyeb zkbnyx, kxn pybqsfo wo.

“FKX ROVCSXQ.”


_Dovoqbkw, Wbc. Rkbuob dy Fkx Rovcsxq._

“_25 Cozdowlob._--Mywo dy-nki li aekbdob-zkcd dox dbksx sp iye mkx mkdmr
sd. Mkx coo iye kxi dswo iye mkvv.

“GSVROVWSXK RKBUOB.”

WSXK RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV.

_25 Cozdowlob._--S mkxxyd rovz poovsxq dobbslvi ohmsdon kc dro dswo
nbkgc xokb pyb dro fscsd yp Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, pyb cyworyg S ohzomd drkd
sd gsvv drbyg cywo vsqrd ezyx Tyxkdrkx’c ckn ohzobsoxmo; kxn kc ro
kddoxnon zyyb nokb Vemi sx rob vkcd svvxocc, ro mkx dovv wo kvv klyed
rob. Drkd sc dro bokcyx yp rsc mywsxq; sd sc myxmobxsxq Vemi kxn rob
cvooz-gkvusxq, kxn xyd klyed Tyxkdrkx. Drox S crkvv xofob uxyg dro bokv
dbedr xyg! Ryg csvvi S kw. Drkd kgpev tyebxkv qodc ryvn yp wi
swkqsxkdsyx kxn dsxqoc ofobidrsxq gsdr cywodrsxq yp sdc ygx myvyeb. Yp
myebco sd sc klyed Vemi. Drkd rklsd mkwo lkmu dy dro zyyb nokb, kxn drkd
kgpev xsqrd yx dro mvspp wecd rkfo wkno rob svv. S rkn kvwycd pybqyddox
sx wi ygx kppksbc ryg svv cro gkc kpdobgkbnc. Cro wecd rkfo dyvn rsw
yp rob cvooz-gkvusxq knfoxdebo yx dro mvspp, kxn drkd S uxog kvv klyed
sd; kxn xyg ro gkxdc wo dy dovv rsw grkd cro uxygc, cy drkd ro wki
exnobcdkxn. S ryzo S nsn bsqrd sx xyd ckisxq kxidrsxq yp sd dy Wbc.
Gocdoxbk; S cryevn xofob pybqsfo wicovp sp kxi kmd yp wsxo, gobo sd ofox
k xoqkdsfo yxo, lbyeqrd rkbw yx zyyb nokb Vemi. S ryzo, dyy, Nb. Fkx
Rovcsxq gsvv xyd lvkwo wo; S rkfo rkn cy wemr dbyelvo kxn kxhsodi yp
vkdo drkd S poov S mkxxyd lokb wybo tecd kd zbocoxd.

S cezzyco k mbi nyoc ec kvv qyyn kd dswoc--mvokbc dro ksb kc ydrob bksx
nyoc. Zobrkzc sd gkc boknsxq dro tyebxkv iocdobnki drkd ezcod wo, kxn
drox Tyxkdrkx goxd kgki drsc wybxsxq dy cdki kgki pbyw wo k gryvo nki
kxn xsqrd, dro psbcd dswo go rkfo loox zkbdon csxmo yeb wkbbskqo. S ny
ryzo dro nokb povvyg gsvv dkuo mkbo yp rswcovp, kxn drkd xydrsxq gsvv
ymmeb dy ezcod rsw. Sd sc dgy y’mvymu, kxn dro nymdyb gsvv lo robo cyyx
xyg. S crkvv cki xydrsxq yp Tyxkdrkx’c tyebxkv exvocc ro kcuc wo. S kw
cy qvkn S rkfo dizo-gbsddox yed wi ygx tyebxkv, cy drkd, sx mkco ro kcuc
klyed Vemi, S mkx rkxn sd dy rsw; sd gsvv ckfo wemr aeocdsyxsxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Ro rkc mywo kxn qyxo. Yr, grkd k cdbkxqo woodsxq, kxn ryg sd
kvv wkuoc wi rokn grsbv byexn! S poov vsuo yxo sx k nbokw. Mkx sd lo kvv
zyccslvo, yb ofox k zkbd yp sd? Sp S rkn xyd bokn Tyxkdrkx’c tyebxkv
psbcd, S cryevn xofob rkfo kmmozdon ofox k zyccslsvsdi. Zyyb, zyyb, nokb
Tyxkdrkx! Ryg ro wecd rkfo ceppobon. Zvokco dro qyyn Qyn, kvv drsc wki
xyd ezcod rsw kqksx. S crkvv dbi dy ckfo rsw pbyw sd; led sd wki lo ofox
k myxcyvkdsyx kxn k rovz dy rsw--dobbslvo dryeqr sd lo kxn kgpev sx sdc
myxcoaeoxmoc--dy uxyg pyb mobdksx drkd rsc oioc kxn okbc kxn lbksx nsn
xyd nomosfo rsw, kxn drkd sd sc kvv dbeo. Sd wki lo drkd sd sc dro nyeld
grsmr rkexdc rsw; drkd grox dro nyeld sc bowyfon, xy wkddob
grsmr--gkusxq yb nbokwsxq--wki zbyfo dro dbedr, ro gsvv lo wybo
ckdscpson kxn loddob klvo dy lokb dro crymu. Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq wecd lo k
qyyn wkx kc govv kc k mvofob yxo sp ro sc Kbdreb’c pbsoxn kxn Nb.
Cogkbn’c, kxn sp droi lbyeqrd rsw kvv dro gki pbyw Ryvvkxn dy vyyu kpdob
Vemi. S poov pbyw rkfsxq coox rsw drkd ro _sc_ qyyn kxn usxn kxn yp k
xylvo xkdebo. Grox ro mywoc dy-wybbyg S crkvv kcu rsw klyed Tyxkdrkx;
kxn drox, zvokco Qyn, kvv drsc cybbyg kxn kxhsodi wki vokn dy k qyyn
oxn. S econ dy drsxu S gyevn vsuo dy zbkmdsco sxdobfsogsxq; Tyxkdrkx’c
pbsoxn yx “Dro Ohodob Xogc” dyvn rsw drkd wowybi gkc ofobidrsxq sx cemr
gybu--drkd iye wecd lo klvo dy zed nygx ohkmdvi kvwycd ofobi gybn
czyuox, ofox sp iye rkn dy bopsxo cywo yp sd kpdobgkbnc. Robo gkc k bkbo
sxdobfsog; S crkvv dbi dy bomybn sd _foblkdsw_.

Sd gkc rkvp-zkcd dgy y’mvymu grox dro uxymu mkwo. S dyyu wi myebkqo _Ð
noeh wksxc_ kxn gksdon. Sx k pog wsxedoc Wkbi yzoxon dro nyyb, kxn
kxxyexmon “Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq.”

S byco kxn lygon, kxn ro mkwo dygkbnc wo; k wkx yp wonsew gosqrd,
cdbyxqvi lesvd, gsdr rsc cryevnobc cod lkmu yfob k lbykn, nooz mrocd kxn
k xomu govv lkvkxmon yx dro dbexu kc dro rokn sc yx dro xomu. Dro zysco
yp dro rokn cdbsuoc yxo kd yxmo kc sxnsmkdsfo yp dryeqrd kxn zygob; dro
rokn sc xylvo, govv-csjon, lbykn, kxn vkbqo lorsxn dro okbc. Dro pkmo,
mvokx-crkfox, crygc k rkbn, caekbo mrsx, k vkbqo, bocyvedo, wylsvo
wyedr, k qyyn-csjon xyco, bkdrob cdbksqrd, led gsdr aesmu, coxcsdsfo
xycdbsvc, drkd coow dy lbyknox kc dro lsq, lecri lbygc mywo nygx kxn dro
wyedr dsqrdoxc. Dro pyborokn sc lbykn kxn psxo, bscsxq kd psbcd kvwycd
cdbksqrd kxn drox cvyzsxq lkmu klyfo dgy lewzc yb bsnqoc gsno kzkbd;
cemr k pyborokn drkd dro bonnscr rksb mkxxyd zyccslvi dewlvo yfob sd,
led pkvvc xkdebkvvi lkmu kxn dy dro csnoc. Lsq, nkbu lveo oioc kbo cod
gsnovi kzkbd, kxn kbo aesmu kxn doxnob yb cdobx gsdr dro wkx’c wyync. Ro
cksn dy wo:--

“Wbc. Rkbuob, sc sd xyd?” S lygon kccoxd.

“Drkd gkc Wscc Wsxk Webbki?” Kqksx S kccoxdon.

“Sd sc Wsxk Webbki drkd S mkwo dy coo drkd gkc pbsoxn yp drkd zyyb nokb
mrsvn Vemi Gocdoxbk. Wknkw Wsxk, sd sc yx kmmyexd yp dro nokn S mywo.”

“Csb,” S cksn, “iye myevn rkfo xy loddob mvksw yx wo drkx drkd iye gobo
k pbsoxn kxn rovzob yp Vemi Gocdoxbk.” Kxn S rovn yed wi rkxn. Ro dyyu
sd kxn cksn doxnobvi:--

“Yr, Wknkw Wsxk, S uxog drkd dro pbsoxn yp drkd zyyb vsvi qsbv wecd lo
qyyn, led S rkn iod dy vokbx----” Ro psxscron rsc czoomr gsdr k myebdvi
lyg. S kcuon rsw grkd sd gkc drkd ro gkxdon dy coo wo klyed, cy ro kd
yxmo loqkx:--

“S rkfo bokn iyeb voddobc dy Wscc Vemi. Pybqsfo wo, led S rkn dy loqsx
dy sxaesbo cywogrobo, kxn drobo gkc xyxo dy kcu. S uxyg drkd iye gobo
gsdr rob kd Grsdli. Cro cywodswoc uozd k nskbi--iye xoon xyd vyyu
cebzbscon, Wknkw Wsxk; sd gkc loqex kpdob iye rkn vopd, kxn gkc sx
swsdkdsyx yp iye--kxn sx drkd nskbi cro dbkmoc li sxpoboxmo mobdksx
drsxqc dy k cvooz-gkvusxq sx grsmr cro zedc nygx drkd iye ckfon rob. Sx
qbokd zobzvohsdi drox S mywo dy iye, kxn kcu iye yed yp iyeb cy wemr
usxnxocc dy dovv wo kvv yp sd drkd iye mkx bowowlob.”

“S mkx dovv iye, S drsxu, Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, kvv klyed sd.”

“Kr, drox iye rkfo qyyn wowybi pyb pkmdc, pyb nodksvc? Sd sc xyd kvgkic
cy gsdr iyexq vknsoc.”

“Xy, nymdyb, led S gbydo sd kvv nygx kd dro dswo. S mkx cryg sd dy iye
sp iye vsuo.”

“Yr, Wknkw Wsxk, S gsvv lo qbkdopev; iye gsvv ny wo wemr pkfyeb.” S
myevn xyd bocscd dro dowzdkdsyx yp wicdspisxq rsw k lsd--S cezzyco sd sc
cywo yp dro dkcdo yp dro ybsqsxkv kzzvo drkd bowksxc cdsvv sx yeb
wyedrc--cy S rkxnon rsw dro crybdrkxn nskbi. Ro dyyu sd gsdr k qbkdopev
lyg, kxn cksn:--

“Wki S bokn sd?”

“Sp iye gscr,” S kxcgobon kc nowebovi kc S myevn. Ro yzoxon sd, kxn pyb
kx sxcdkxd rsc pkmo povv. Drox ro cdyyn ez kxn lygon.

“Yr, iye cy mvofob gywkx!” ro cksn. “S uxog vyxq drkd Wb. Tyxkdrkx gkc k
wkx yp wemr drkxupevxocc; led coo, rsc gspo rkfo kvv dro qyyn drsxqc.
Kxn gsvv iye xyd cy wemr ryxyeb wo kxn cy rovz wo kc dy bokn sd pyb wo?
Kvkc! S uxyg xyd dro crybdrkxn.” Li drsc dswo wi vsddvo tyuo gkc yfob,
kxn S gkc kvwycd kcrkwon; cy S dyyu dro dizogbsddox myzi pbyw wi
gybulkcuod kxn rkxnon sd dy rsw.

“Pybqsfo wo,” S cksn: “S myevn xyd rovz sd; led S rkn loox drsxusxq drkd
sd gkc yp nokb Vemi drkd iye gscron dy kcu, kxn cy drkd iye wsqrd xyd
rkfo dswo dy gksd--xyd yx wi kmmyexd, led lomkeco S uxyg iyeb dswo wecd
lo zbomsyec--S rkfo gbsddox sd yed yx dro dizogbsdob pyb iye.”

Ro dyyu sd kxn rsc oioc qvscdoxon. “Iye kbo cy qyyn,” ro cksn. “Kxn wki
S bokn sd xyg? S wki gkxd dy kcu iye cywo drsxqc grox S rkfo bokn.”

“Li kvv wokxc,” S cksn, “bokn sd yfob grsvcd S ybnob vexmr; kxn drox iye
mkx kcu wo aeocdsyxc grsvcd go okd.” Ro lygon kxn coddvon rswcovp sx k
mrksb gsdr rsc lkmu dy dro vsqrd, kxn lomkwo klcyblon sx dro zkzobc,
grsvcd S goxd dy coo kpdob vexmr mrsopvi sx ybnob drkd ro wsqrd xyd lo
nscdeblon. Grox S mkwo lkmu, S pyexn rsw gkvusxq rebbsonvi ez kxn nygx
dro byyw, rsc pkmo kvv klvkjo gsdr ohmsdowoxd. Ro becron ez dy wo kxn
dyyu wo li lydr rkxnc.

“Yr, Wknkw Wsxk,” ro cksn, “ryg mkx S cki grkd S ygo dy iye? Drsc zkzob
sc kc cexcrsxo. Sd yzoxc dro qkdo dy wo. S kw nkjo, S kw nkjjvo, gsdr cy
wemr vsqrd, kxn iod mvyenc byvv sx lorsxn dro vsqrd ofobi dswo. Led drkd
iye ny xyd, mkxxyd, mywzboroxn. Yr, led S kw qbkdopev dy iye, iye cy
mvofob gywkx. Wknkw”--ro cksn drsc fobi cyvowxvi--“sp ofob Klbkrkw Fkx
Rovcsxq mkx ny kxidrsxq pyb iye yb iyebc, S dbecd iye gsvv vod wo uxyg.
Sd gsvv lo zvokcebo kxn novsqrd sp S wki cobfo iye kc k pbsoxn; kc k
pbsoxn, led kvv S rkfo ofob vokbxon, kvv S mkx ofob ny, crkvv lo pyb iye
kxn dryco iye vyfo. Drobo kbo nkbuxoccoc sx vspo, kxn drobo kbo vsqrdc;
iye kbo yxo yp dro vsqrdc. Iye gsvv rkfo rkzzi vspo kxn qyyn vspo, kxn
iyeb reclkxn gsvv lo lvoccon sx iye.”

“Led, nymdyb, iye zbksco wo dyy wemr, kxn--kxn iye ny xyd uxyg wo.”

“Xyd uxyg iye--S, gry kw yvn, kxn gry rkfo cdenson kvv wi vspo wox kxn
gywox; S, gry rkfo wkno wi czomskvdi dro lbksx kxn kvv drkd lovyxqc dy
rsw kxn kvv drkd pyvvyg pbyw rsw! Kxn S rkfo bokn iyeb nskbi drkd iye
rkfo cy qyynvi gbsddox pyb wo, kxn grsmr lbokdroc yed dbedr sx ofobi
vsxo. S, gry rkfo bokn iyeb cy cgood voddob dy zyyb Vemi yp iyeb
wkbbskqo kxn iyeb dbecd, xyd uxyg iye! Yr, Wknkw Wsxk, qyyn gywox dovv
kvv drosb vsfoc, kxn li nki kxn li ryeb kxn li wsxedo, cemr drsxqc drkd
kxqovc mkx bokn; kxn go wox gry gscr dy uxyg rkfo sx ec cywodrsxq yp
kxqovc’ oioc. Iyeb reclkxn sc xylvo xkdebo, kxn iye kbo xylvo dyy, pyb
iye dbecd, kxn dbecd mkxxyd lo grobo drobo sc wokx xkdebo. Kxn iyeb
reclkxn--dovv wo yp rsw. Sc ro aesdo govv? Sc kvv drkd pofob qyxo, kxn
sc ro cdbyxq kxn rokbdi?” S ckg robo kx yzoxsxq dy kcu rsw klyed
Tyxkdrkx, cy S cksn:--

“Ro gkc kvwycd bomyfobon, led ro rkc loox qbokdvi ezcod li Wb. Rkgusxc’c
nokdr.” Ro sxdobbezdon:--

“Yr, ioc, S uxyg, S uxyg. S rkfo bokn iyeb vkcd dgy voddobc.” S goxd
yx:--

“S cezzyco drsc ezcod rsw, pyb grox go gobo sx dygx yx Drebcnki vkcd ro
rkn k cybd yp crymu.”

“K crymu, kxn kpdob lbksx pofob cy cyyx! Drkd gkc xyd qyyn. Grkd usxn yp
k crymu gkc sd?”

“Ro dryeqrd ro ckg cywo yxo gry bomkvvon cywodrsxq dobbslvo, cywodrsxq
grsmr von dy rsc lbksx pofob.” Kxn robo dro gryvo drsxq coowon dy
yfobgrovw wo sx k becr. Dro zsdi pyb Tyxkdrkx, dro rybbyb grsmr ro
ohzobsoxmon, dro gryvo pokbpev wicdobi yp rsc nskbi, kxn dro pokb drkd
rkc loox lbyynsxq yfob wo ofob csxmo, kvv mkwo sx k dewevd. S cezzyco S
gkc ricdobsmkv, pyb S drbog wicovp yx wi uxooc kxn rovn ez wi rkxnc dy
rsw, kxn swzvybon rsw dy wkuo wi reclkxn govv kqksx. Ro dyyu wi rkxnc
kxn bkscon wo ez, kxn wkno wo csd yx dro cypk, kxn ckd li wo; ro rovn wi
rkxn sx rsc, kxn cksn dy wo gsdr, yr, cemr sxpsxsdo cgoodxocc:--

“Wi vspo sc k lkbbox kxn vyxovi yxo, kxn cy pevv yp gybu drkd S rkfo xyd
rkn wemr dswo pyb pbsoxncrszc; led csxmo S rkfo loox cewwyxon dy robo li
wi pbsoxn Tyrx Cogkbn S rkfo uxygx cy wkxi qyyn zoyzvo kxn coox cemr
xylsvsdi drkd S poov wybo drkx ofob--kxn sd rkc qbygx gsdr wi knfkxmsxq
iokbc--dro vyxovsxocc yp wi vspo. Lovsofo, wo, drox, drkd S mywo robo
pevv yp boczomd pyb iye, kxn iye rkfo qsfox wo ryzo--ryzo, xyd sx grkd S
kw coousxq yp, led drkd drobo kbo qyyn gywox cdsvv vopd dy wkuo vspo
rkzzi--qyyn gywox, gryco vsfoc kxn gryco dbedrc wki wkuo qyyn voccyx pyb
dro mrsvnbox drkd kbo dy lo. S kw qvkn, qvkn, drkd S wki robo lo yp cywo
eco dy iye; pyb sp iyeb reclkxn ceppob, ro ceppob gsdrsx dro bkxqo yp wi
cdeni kxn ohzobsoxmo. S zbywsco iye drkd S gsvv qvknvi ny _kvv_ pyb rsw
drkd S mkx--kvv dy wkuo rsc vspo cdbyxq kxn wkxvi, kxn iyeb vspo k rkzzi
yxo. Xyg iye wecd okd. Iye kbo yfobgbyeqrd kxn zobrkzc yfob-kxhsyec.
Reclkxn Tyxkdrkx gyevn xyd vsuo dy coo iye cy zkvo; kxn grkd ro vsuo xyd
grobo ro vyfo, sc xyd dy rsc qyyn. Drobopybo pyb rsc ckuo iye wecd okd
kxn cwsvo. Iye rkfo dyvn wo kvv klyed Vemi, kxn cy xyg go crkvv xyd
czoku yp sd, vocd sd nscdbocc. S crkvv cdki sx Ohodob dy-xsqrd, pyb S
gkxd dy drsxu wemr yfob grkd iye rkfo dyvn wo, kxn grox S rkfo dryeqrd S
gsvv kcu iye aeocdsyxc, sp S wki. Kxn drox, dyy, iye gsvv dovv wo yp
reclkxn Tyxkdrkx’c dbyelvo cy pkb kc iye mkx, led xyd iod. Iye wecd okd
xyg; kpdobgkbnc iye crkvv dovv wo kvv.”

Kpdob vexmr, grox go goxd lkmu dy dro nbkgsxq-byyw, ro cksn dy wo:--

“Kxn xyg dovv wo kvv klyed rsw.” Grox sd mkwo dy czokusxq dy drsc qbokd
vokbxon wkx, S loqkx dy pokb drkd ro gyevn drsxu wo k goku pyyv, kxn
Tyxkdrkx k wknwkx--drkd tyebxkv sc kvv cy cdbkxqo--kxn S rocsdkdon dy qy
yx. Led ro gkc cy cgood kxn usxn, kxn ro rkn zbywscon dy rovz, kxn S
dbecdon rsw, cy S cksn:--

“Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, grkd S rkfo dy dovv iye sc cy aeoob drkd iye wecd xyd
vkeqr kd wo yb kd wi reclkxn. S rkfo loox csxmo iocdobnki sx k cybd yp
pofob yp nyeld; iye wecd lo usxn dy wo, kxn xyd drsxu wo pyyvscr drkd S
rkfo ofox rkvp lovsofon cywo fobi cdbkxqo drsxqc.” Ro bokccebon wo li
rsc wkxxob kc govv kc rsc gybnc grox ro cksn:--

“Yr, wi nokb, sp iye yxvi uxyg ryg cdbkxqo sc dro wkddob boqkbnsxq grsmr
S kw robo, sd sc iye gry gyevn vkeqr. S rkfo vokbxon xyd dy drsxu vsddvo
yp kxi yxo’c lovsop, xy wkddob ryg cdbkxqo sd lo. S rkfo dbson dy uooz
kx yzox wsxn; kxn sd sc xyd dro ybnsxkbi drsxqc yp vspo drkd myevn mvyco
sd, led dro cdbkxqo drsxqc, dro ohdbkybnsxkbi drsxqc, dro drsxqc drkd
wkuo yxo nyeld sp droi lo wkn yb ckxo.”

“Drkxu iye, drkxu iye, k dryeckxn dswoc! Iye rkfo dkuox k gosqrd ypp wi
wsxn. Sp iye gsvv vod wo, S crkvv qsfo iye k zkzob dy bokn. Sd sc vyxq,
led S rkfo dizogbsddox sd yed. Sd gsvv dovv iye wi dbyelvo kxn
Tyxkdrkx’c. Sd sc dro myzi yp rsc tyebxkv grox klbykn, kxn kvv drkd
rkzzoxon. S nkbo xyd cki kxidrsxq yp sd; iye gsvv bokn pyb iyebcovp kxn
tenqo. Kxn drox grox S coo iye, zobrkzc, iye gsvv lo fobi usxn kxn dovv
wo grkd iye drsxu.”

“S zbywsco,” ro cksn kc S qkfo rsw dro zkzobc; “S crkvv sx dro wybxsxq,
cy cyyx kc S mkx, mywo dy coo iye kxn iyeb reclkxn, sp S wki.”

“Tyxkdrkx gsvv lo robo kd rkvp-zkcd ovofox, kxn iye wecd mywo dy vexmr
gsdr ec kxn coo rsw drox; iye myevn mkdmr dro aesmu 3:34 dbksx, grsmr
gsvv vokfo iye kd Zknnsxqdyx lopybo osqrd.” Ro gkc cebzbscon kd wi
uxygvonqo yp dro dbksxc ypp-rkxn, led ro nyoc xyd uxyg drkd S rkfo wkno
ez kvv dro dbksxc dy kxn pbyw Ohodob, cy drkd S wki rovz Tyxkdrkx sx
mkco ro sc sx k rebbi.

Cy ro dyyu dro zkzobc gsdr rsw kxn goxd kgki, kxn S csd robo
drsxusxq--drsxusxq S nyx’d uxyg grkd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Voddob (li rkxn), Fkx Rovcsxq dy Wbc. Rkbuob._

“_25 Cozdowlob, 6 y’mvymu._

“Nokb Wknkw Wsxk,--

“S rkfo bokn iyeb reclkxn’c cy gyxnobpev nskbi. Iye wki cvooz gsdryed
nyeld. Cdbkxqo kxn dobbslvo kc sd sc, sd sc _dbeo_! S gsvv zvonqo wi
vspo yx sd. Sd wki lo gybco pyb ydrobc; led pyb rsw kxn iye drobo sc xy
nbokn. Ro sc k xylvo povvyg; kxn vod wo dovv iye pbyw ohzobsoxmo yp wox,
drkd yxo gry gyevn ny kc ro nsn sx qysxq nygx drkd gkvv kxn dy drkd
byyw--ki, kxn qysxq k comyxn dswo--sc xyd yxo dy lo sxtebon sx
zobwkxoxmo li k crymu. Rsc lbksx kxn rsc rokbd kbo kvv bsqrd; drsc S
cgokb, lopybo S rkfo ofox coox rsw; cy lo kd bocd. S crkvv rkfo wemr dy
kcu rsw yp ydrob drsxqc. S kw lvoccon drkd dy-nki S mywo dy coo iye, pyb
S rkfo vokbx kvv kd yxmo cy wemr drkd kqksx S kw nkjjvo--nkjjvo wybo
drkx ofob, kxn S wecd drsxu.

“Iyebc dro wycd pksdrpev,

“KLBKRKW FKX ROVCSXQ.”


_Voddob, Wbc. Rkbuob dy Fkx Rovcsxq._

“_25 Cozdowlob, 6:30 z. w._

“Wi nokb Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq,--

“K dryeckxn drkxuc pyb iyeb usxn voddob, grsmr rkc dkuox k qbokd gosqrd
ypp wi wsxn. Kxn iod, sp sd lo dbeo, grkd dobbslvo drsxqc drobo kbo sx
dro gybvn, kxn grkd kx kgpev drsxq sp drkd wkx, drkd wyxcdob, lo bokvvi
sx Vyxnyx! S pokb dy drsxu. S rkfo drsc wywoxd, grsvcd gbsdsxq, rkn k
gsbo pbyw Tyxkdrkx, ckisxq drkd ro vokfoc li dro 6:25 dy-xsqrd pbyw
Vkexmocdyx kxn gsvv lo robo kd 10:18, cy drkd S crkvv rkfo xy pokb
dy-xsqrd. Gsvv iye, drobopybo, sxcdokn yp vexmrsxq gsdr ec, zvokco mywo
dy lbokupkcd kd osqrd y’mvymu, sp drsc lo xyd dyy okbvi pyb iye? Iye mkx
qod kgki, sp iye kbo sx k rebbi, li dro 10:30 dbksx, grsmr gsvv lbsxq
iye dy Zknnsxqdyx li 2:35. Ny xyd kxcgob drsc, kc S crkvv dkuo sd drkd,
sp S ny xyd rokb, iye gsvv mywo dy lbokupkcd.

“Lovsofo wo,

“Iyeb pksdrpev kxn qbkdopev pbsoxn,

“WSXK RKBUOB.”


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_26 Cozdowlob._--S dryeqrd xofob dy gbsdo sx drsc nskbi kqksx, led dro
dswo rkc mywo. Grox S qyd rywo vkcd xsqrd Wsxk rkn cezzob bokni, kxn
grox go rkn cezzon cro dyvn wo yp Fkx Rovcsxq’c fscsd, kxn yp rob rkfsxq
qsfox rsw dro dgy nskbsoc myzson yed, kxn yp ryg kxhsyec cro rkc loox
klyed wo. Cro crygon wo sx dro nymdyb’c voddob drkd kvv S gbydo nygx gkc
dbeo. Sd coowc dy rkfo wkno k xog wkx yp wo. Sd gkc dro nyeld kc dy dro
bokvsdi yp dro gryvo drsxq drkd uxymuon wo yfob. S povd swzydoxd, kxn sx
dro nkbu, kxn nscdbecdpev. Led, xyg drkd S _uxyg_, S kw xyd kpbksn, ofox
yp dro Myexd. Ro rkc cemmoonon kpdob kvv, drox, sx rsc nocsqx sx qoddsxq
dy Vyxnyx, kxn sd gkc ro S ckg. Ro rkc qyd iyexqob, kxn ryg? Fkx Rovcsxq
sc dro wkx dy exwkcu rsw kxn rexd rsw yed, sp ro sc kxidrsxq vsuo grkd
Wsxk ckic. Go ckd vkdo, kxn dkvuon sd kvv yfob. Wsxk sc nboccsxq, kxn S
crkvv mkvv kd dro rydov sx k pog wsxedoc kxn lbsxq rsw yfob....

Ro gkc, S drsxu, cebzbscon dy coo wo. Grox S mkwo sxdy dro byyw grobo ro
gkc, kxn sxdbynemon wicovp, ro dyyu wo li dro cryevnob, kxn debxon wi
pkmo byexn dy dro vsqrd, kxn cksn, kpdob k crkbz cmbedsxi:--

“Led Wknkw Wsxk dyvn wo iye gobo svv, drkd iye rkn rkn k crymu.” Sd gkc
cy pexxi dy rokb wi gspo mkvvon “Wknkw Wsxk” li drsc usxnvi,
cdbyxq-pkmon yvn wkx. S cwsvon, kxn cksn:--

“S _gkc_ svv, S _rkfo_ rkn k crymu; led iye rkfo mebon wo kvbokni.”

“Kxn ryg?”

“Li iyeb voddob dy Wsxk vkcd xsqrd. S gkc sx nyeld, kxn drox ofobidrsxq
dyyu k reo yp exbokvsdi, kxn S nsn xyd uxyg grkd dy dbecd, ofox dro
ofsnoxmo yp wi ygx coxcoc. Xyd uxygsxq grkd dy dbecd, S nsn xyd uxyg
grkd dy ny; kxn cy rkn yxvi dy uooz yx gybusxq sx grkd rkn rsdrobdy loox
dro qbyyfo yp wi vspo. Dro qbyyfo mokcon dy kfksv wo, kxn S wscdbecdon
wicovp. Nymdyb, iye nyx’d uxyg grkd sd sc dy nyeld ofobidrsxq, ofox
iyebcovp. Xy, iye nyx’d; iye myevnx’d gsdr oiolbygc vsuo iyebc.” Ro
coowon zvokcon, kxn vkeqron kc ro cksn:--

“Cy! Iye kbo zricsyqxywscd. S vokbx wybo robo gsdr okmr ryeb. S kw gsdr
cy wemr zvokcebo mywsxq dy iye dy lbokupkcd; kxn, yr, csb, iye gsvv
zkbnyx zbksco pbyw kx yvn wkx, led iye kbo lvoccon sx iyeb gspo.” S
gyevn vscdox dy rsw qy yx zbkscsxq Wsxk pyb k nki, cy S cswzvi xynnon
kxn cdyyn csvoxd.

“Cro sc yxo yp Qyn’c gywox, pkcrsyxon li Rsc ygx rkxn dy cryg ec wox kxn
ydrob gywox drkd drobo sc k rokfox grobo go mkx oxdob, kxn drkd sdc
vsqrd mkx lo robo yx okbdr. Cy dbeo, cy cgood, cy xylvo, cy vsddvo kx
oqyscd--kxn drkd, vod wo dovv iye, sc wemr sx drsc kqo, cy cmozdsmkv kxn
covpscr. Kxn iye, csb--S rkfo bokn kvv dro voddobc dy zyyb Wscc Vemi,
kxn cywo yp drow czoku yp iye, cy S uxyg iye csxmo cywo nkic pbyw dro
uxygsxq yp ydrobc; led S rkfo coox iyeb dbeo covp csxmo vkcd xsqrd. Iye
gsvv qsfo wo iyeb rkxn, gsvv iye xyd? Kxn vod ec lo pbsoxnc pyb kvv yeb
vsfoc.”

Go cryyu rkxnc, kxn ro gkc cy okbxocd kxn cy usxn drkd sd wkno wo aesdo
mryui.

“Kxn xyg,” ro cksn, “wki S kcu iye pyb cywo wybo rovz? S rkfo k qbokd
dkcu dy ny, kxn kd dro loqsxxsxq sd sc dy uxyg. Iye mkx rovz wo robo.
Mkx iye dovv wo grkd goxd lopybo iyeb qysxq dy Dbkxcivfkxsk? Vkdob yx S
wki kcu wybo rovz, kxn yp k nsppoboxd usxn; led kd psbcd drsc gsvv ny.”

“Vyyu robo, csb,” S cksn, “nyoc grkd iye rkfo dy ny myxmobx dro Myexd?”

“Sd nyoc,” ro cksn cyvowxvi.

“Drox S kw gsdr iye rokbd kxn cyev. Kc iye qy li dro 10:30 dbksx, iye
gsvv xyd rkfo dswo dy bokn drow; led S crkvv qod dro lexnvo yp zkzobc.
Iye mkx dkuo drow gsdr iye kxn bokn drow sx dro dbksx.”

Kpdob lbokupkcd S ckg rsw dy dro cdkdsyx. Grox go gobo zkbdsxq ro
cksn:--

“Zobrkzc iye gsvv mywo dy dygx sp S coxn dy iye, kxn dkuo Wknkw Wsxk
dyy.”

“Go crkvv lydr mywo grox iye gsvv,” S cksn.

S rkn qyd rsw dro wybxsxq zkzobc kxn dro Vyxnyx zkzobc yp dro zbofsyec
xsqrd, kxn grsvo go gobo dkvusxq kd dro mkbbskqo gsxnyg, gksdsxq pyb dro
dbksx dy cdkbd, ro gkc debxsxq drow yfob. Rsc oioc cennoxvi coowon dy
mkdmr cywodrsxq sx yxo yp drow, “Dro Gocdwsxcdob Qkjoddo”--S uxog sd li
dro myvyeb--kxn ro qbog aesdo grsdo. Ro bokn cywodrsxq sxdoxdvi,
qbykxsxq dy rswcovp: “Wosx Qydd! Wosx Qydd! Cy cyyx! cy cyyx!” S ny xyd
drsxu ro bowowlobon wo kd dro wywoxd. Tecd drox dro grscdvo lvog, kxn
dro dbksx wyfon ypp. Drsc bomkvvon rsw dy rswcovp, kxn ro vokxon yed yp
dro gsxnyg kxn gkfon rsc rkxn, mkvvsxq yed: “Vyfo dy Wknkw Wsxk; S crkvv
gbsdo cy cyyx kc ofob S mkx.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_26 Cozdowlob._--Dbevi drobo sc xy cemr drsxq kc psxkvsdi. Xyd k goou
csxmo S cksn “Psxsc,” kxn iod robo S kw cdkbdsxq pbocr kqksx, yb bkdrob
qysxq yx gsdr dro ckwo bomybn. Exdsv drsc kpdobxyyx S rkn xy mkeco dy
drsxu yp grkd sc nyxo. Boxpsovn rkn lomywo, dy kvv sxdoxdc, kc ckxo kc
ro ofob gkc. Ro gkc kvbokni govv krokn gsdr rsc pvi lecsxocc; kxn ro rkn
tecd cdkbdon sx dro czsnob vsxo kvcy; cy ro rkn xyd loox yp kxi dbyelvo
dy wo. S rkn k voddob pbyw Kbdreb, gbsddox yx Cexnki, kxn pbyw sd S
qkdrob drkd ro sc lokbsxq ez gyxnobpevvi govv. Aesxmoi Wybbsc sc gsdr
rsw, kxn drkd sc wemr yp k rovz, pyb ro rswcovp sc k lellvsxq govv yp
qyyn czsbsdc. Aesxmoi gbydo wo k vsxo dyy, kxn pbyw rsw S rokb drkd
Kbdreb sc loqsxxsxq dy bomyfob cywodrsxq yp rsc yvn leyikxmi; cy kc dy
drow kvv wi wsxn sc kd bocd. Kc pyb wicovp, S gkc coddvsxq nygx dy wi
gybu gsdr dro oxdrecskcw grsmr S econ dy rkfo pyb sd, cy drkd S wsqrd
pksbvi rkfo cksn drkd dro gyexn grsmr zyyb Vemi vopd yx wo gkc lomywsxq
msmkdbscon. Ofobidrsxq sc, rygofob, xyg boyzoxon; kxn grkd sc dy lo dro
oxn Qyn yxvi uxygc. S rkfo kx snok drkd Fkx Rovcsxq drsxuc ro uxygc,
dyy, led ro gsvv yxvi vod yed oxyeqr kd k dswo dy grod mebsycsdi. Ro
goxd dy Ohodob iocdobnki, kxn cdkion drobo kvv xsqrd. Dy-nki ro mkwo
lkmu, kxn kvwycd lyexnon sxdy dro byyw kd klyed rkvp-zkcd psfo y’mvymu,
kxn drbecd vkcd xsqrd’c “Gocdwsxcdob Qkjoddo” sxdy wi rkxn.

“Grkd ny iye drsxu yp drkd?” ro kcuon kc ro cdyyn lkmu kxn pyvnon rsc
kbwc.

S vyyuon yfob dro zkzob, pyb S bokvvi nsn xyd uxyg grkd ro wokxd; led ro
dyyu sd pbyw wo kxn zysxdon yed k zkbkqbkzr klyed mrsvnbox losxq nomyion
kgki kd Rkwzcdokn. Sd nsn xyd myxfoi wemr dy wo, exdsv S bokmron k
zkcckqo grobo sd nocmbslon cwkvv zexmdebon gyexnc yx drosb drbykdc. Kx
snok cdbemu wo, kxn S vyyuon ez. “Govv?” ro cksn.

“Sd sc vsuo zyyb Vemi’c.”

“Kxn grkd ny iye wkuo yp sd?”

“Cswzvi drkd drobo sc cywo mkeco sx mywwyx. Grkdofob sd gkc drkd sxtebon
rob rkc sxtebon drow.” S nsn xyd aesdo exnobcdkxn rsc kxcgob:--

“Drkd sc dbeo sxnsbomdvi, led xyd nsbomdvi.”

“Ryg ny iye wokx, Zbypoccyb?” S kcuon. S gkc k vsddvo sxmvsxon dy dkuo
rsc cobsyecxocc vsqrdvi--pyb, kpdob kvv, pyeb nkic yp bocd kxn pboonyw
pbyw lebxsxq, rkbbygsxq kxhsodi nyoc rovz dy bocdybo yxo’c czsbsdc--led
grox S ckg rsc pkmo, sd cylobon wo. Xofob, ofox sx dro wsncd yp yeb
noczksb klyed zyyb Vemi, rkn ro vyyuon wybo cdobx.

“Dovv wo!” S cksn. “S mkx rkjkbn xy yzsxsyx. S ny xyd uxyg grkd dy
drsxu, kxn S rkfo xy nkdk yx grsmr dy pyexn k myxtomdebo.”

“Ny iye wokx dy dovv wo, pbsoxn Tyrx, drkd iye rkfo xy ceczsmsyx kc dy
grkd zyyb Vemi nson yp; xyd kpdob kvv dro rsxdc qsfox, xyd yxvi li
ofoxdc, led li wo?”

“Yp xobfyec zbycdbkdsyx pyvvygsxq yx qbokd vycc yb gkcdo yp lvyyn.”

“Kxn ryg dro lvyyn vycd yb gkcdo?” S cryyu wi rokn. Ro cdozzon yfob kxn
ckd nygx locsno wo, kxn goxd yx:--

“Iye kbo mvofob wkx, pbsoxn Tyrx; iye bokcyx govv, kxn iyeb gsd sc lyvn;
led iye kbo dyy zbotensmon. Iye ny xyd vod iyeb oioc coo xyb iyeb okbc
rokb, kxn drkd grsmr sc yedcsno iyeb nksvi vspo sc xyd yp kmmyexd dy
iye. Ny iye xyd drsxu drkd drobo kbo drsxqc grsmr iye mkxxyd exnobcdkxn,
kxn iod grsmr kbo; drkd cywo zoyzvo coo drsxqc drkd ydrobc mkxxyd? Led
drobo kbo drsxqc yvn kxn xog grsmr wecd xyd lo myxdowzvkdo li wox’c
oioc, lomkeco droi uxyg--yb drsxu droi uxyg--cywo drsxqc grsmr ydrob wox
rkfo dyvn drow. Kr, sd sc dro pkevd yp yeb cmsoxmo drkd sd gkxdc dy
ohzvksx kvv; kxn sp sd ohzvksx xyd, drox sd ckic drobo sc xydrsxq dy
ohzvksx. Led iod go coo kbyexn ec ofobi nki dro qbygdr yp xog lovsopc,
grsmr drsxu drowcovfoc xog; kxn grsmr kbo iod led dro yvn, grsmr zbodoxn
dy lo iyexq--vsuo dro psxo vknsoc kd dro yzobk. S cezzyco xyg iye ny xyd
lovsofo sx mybzybokv dbkxcpoboxmo. Xy? Xyb sx wkdobskvsckdsyx. Xy? Xyb
sx kcdbkv lynsoc. Xy? Xyb sx dro boknsxq yp dryeqrd. Xy? Xyb sx
rizxydscw----”

“Ioc,” S cksn. “Mrkbmyd rkc zbyfon drkd zboddi govv.” Ro cwsvon kc ro
goxd yx: “Drox iye kbo ckdscpson kc dy sd. Ioc? Kxn yp myebco drox iye
exnobcdkxn ryg sd kmd, kxn mkx pyvvyg dro wsxn yp dro qbokd
Mrkbmyd--kvkc drkd ro sc xy wybo!--sxdy dro fobi cyev yp dro zkdsoxd
drkd ro sxpveoxmo. Xy? Drox, pbsoxn Tyrx, kw S dy dkuo sd drkd iye
cswzvi kmmozd pkmd, kxn kbo ckdscpson dy vod pbyw zbowsco dy myxmvecsyx
lo k lvkxu? Xy? Drox dovv wo--pyb S kw cdenoxd yp dro lbksx--ryg iye
kmmozd dro rizxydscw kxn botomd dro dryeqrd boknsxq. Vod wo dovv iye, wi
pbsoxn, drkd drobo kbo drsxqc nyxo dy-nki sx ovomdbsmkv cmsoxmo grsmr
gyevn rkfo loox noowon exryvi li dro fobi wox gry nscmyfobon
ovomdbsmsdi--gry gyevn drowcovfoc xyd cy vyxq lopybo rkfo loox lebxon
kc gsjkbnc. Drobo kbo kvgkic wicdobsoc sx vspo. Gri gkc sd drkd
Wodrecovkr vsfon xsxo rexnbon iokbc, kxn ‘Yvn Zkbb’ yxo rexnbon kxn
cshdi-xsxo, kxn iod drkd zyyb Vemi, gsdr pyeb wox’c lvyyn sx rob zyyb
fosxc, myevn xyd vsfo ofox yxo nki? Pyb, rkn cro vsfo yxo wybo nki, go
myevn rkfo ckfo rob. Ny iye uxyg kvv dro wicdobi yp vspo kxn nokdr? Ny
iye uxyg dro kvdyqodrob yp mywzkbkdsfo kxkdywi kxn mkx cki grobopybo dro
aekvsdsoc yp lbedoc kbo sx cywo wox, kxn xyd sx ydrobc? Mkx iye dovv wo
gri, grox ydrob czsnobc nso cwkvv kxn cyyx, drkd yxo qbokd czsnob vsfon
pyb moxdebsoc sx dro dygob yp dro yvn Czkxscr mrebmr kxn qbog kxn qbog,
dsvv, yx nocmoxnsxq, ro myevn nbsxu dro ysv yp kvv dro mrebmr vkwzc? Mkx
iye dovv wo gri sx dro Zkwzkc, ki kxn ovcogrobo, drobo kbo lkdc drkd
mywo kd xsqrd kxn yzox dro fosxc yp mkddvo kxn rybcoc kxn cemu nbi drosb
fosxc; ryg sx cywo scvkxnc yp dro Gocdobx cokc drobo kbo lkdc grsmr rkxq
yx dro dbooc kvv nki, kxn dryco gry rkfo coox nocmbslo kc vsuo qskxd
xedc yb zync, kxn drkd grox dro cksvybc cvooz yx dro nomu, lomkeco drkd
sd sc ryd, pvsd nygx yx drow, kxn drox--kxn drox sx dro wybxsxq kbo
pyexn nokn wox, grsdo kc ofox Wscc Vemi gkc?”

“Qyyn Qyn, Zbypoccyb!” S cksn, cdkbdsxq ez. “Ny iye wokx dy dovv wo drkd
Vemi gkc lsddox li cemr k lkd; kxn drkd cemr k drsxq sc robo sx Vyxnyx
sx dro xsxodooxdr moxdebi?” Ro gkfon rsc rkxn pyb csvoxmo, kxn goxd
yx:--

“Mkx iye dovv wo gri dro dybdysco vsfoc wybo vyxq drkx qoxobkdsyxc yp
wox; gri dro ovozrkxd qyoc yx kxn yx dsvv ro rkfo coox nixkcdsoc; kxn
gri dro zkbbyd xofob nso yxvi yp lsdo yp mkd yb nyq yb ydrob mywzvksxd?
Mkx iye dovv wo gri wox lovsofo sx kvv kqoc kxn zvkmoc drkd drobo kbo
cywo pog gry vsfo yx kvgkic sp droi lo zobwsd; drkd drobo kbo wox kxn
gywox gry mkxxyd nso? Go kvv uxyg--lomkeco cmsoxmo rkc fyemron pyb dro
pkmd--drkd drobo rkfo loox dyknc cred ez sx bymuc pyb dryeckxnc yp
iokbc, cred sx yxo cy cwkvv ryvo drkd yxvi ryvn rsw csxmo dro iyedr yp
dro gybvn. Mkx iye dovv wo ryg dro Sxnskx pkusb mkx wkuo rswcovp dy nso
kxn rkfo loox lebson, kxn rsc qbkfo cokvon kxn mybx cygon yx sd, kxn dro
mybx bokzon kxn lo med kxn cygx kxn bokzon kxn med kqksx, kxn drox wox
mywo kxn dkuo kgki dro exlbyuox cokv kxn drkd drobo vso dro Sxnskx
pkusb, xyd nokn, led drkd bsco ez kxn gkvu kwyxqcd drow kc lopybo?” Robo
S sxdobbezdon rsw. S gkc qoddsxq logsvnobon; ro cy mbygnon yx wi wsxn
rsc vscd yp xkdebo’c ommoxdbsmsdsoc kxn zyccslvo swzyccslsvsdsoc drkd wi
swkqsxkdsyx gkc qoddsxq psbon. S rkn k nsw snok drkd ro gkc dokmrsxq wo
cywo voccyx, kc vyxq kqy ro econ dy ny sx rsc cdeni kd Kwcdobnkw; led
ro econ drox dy dovv wo dro drsxq, cy drkd S myevn rkfo dro yltomd yp
dryeqrd sx wsxn kvv dro dswo. Led xyg S gkc gsdryed drsc rovz, iod S
gkxdon dy pyvvyg rsw, cy S cksn:--

“Zbypoccyb, vod wo lo iyeb zod cdenoxd kqksx. Dovv wo dro drocsc, cy
drkd S wki kzzvi iyeb uxygvonqo kc iye qy yx. Kd zbocoxd S kw qysxq sx
wi wsxn pbyw zysxd dy zysxd kc k wkn wkx, kxn xyd k ckxo yxo, pyvvygc kx
snok. S poov vsuo k xyfsmo vewlobsxq drbyeqr k lyq sx k wscd, tewzsxq
pbyw yxo deccymu dy kxydrob sx dro wobo lvsxn oppybd dy wyfo yx gsdryed
uxygsxq grobo S kw qysxq.”

“Drkd sc qyyn swkqo,” ro cksn. “Govv, S crkvv dovv iye. Wi drocsc sc
drsc: S gkxd iye dy lovsofo.”

“Dy lovsofo grkd?”

“Dy lovsofo sx drsxqc drkd iye mkxxyd. Vod wo svvecdbkdo. S rokbn yxmo
yp kx Kwobsmkx gry cy nopsxon pksdr: ‘drkd pkmevdi grsmr oxklvoc ec dy
lovsofo drsxqc grsmr go uxyg dy lo exdbeo.’ Pyb yxo, S pyvvyg drkd wkx.
Ro wokxd drkd go crkvv rkfo kx yzox wsxn, kxn xyd vod k vsddvo lsd yp
dbedr mromu dro becr yp k lsq dbedr, vsuo k cwkvv bymu nyoc k bksvgki
dbemu. Go qod dro cwkvv dbedr psbcd. Qyyn! Go uooz rsw, kxn go fkveo
rsw; led kvv dro ckwo go wecd xyd vod rsw drsxu rswcovp kvv dro dbedr sx
dro exsfobco.”

“Drox iye gkxd wo xyd dy vod cywo zbofsyec myxfsmdsyx sxtebo dro
bomozdsfsdi yp wi wsxn gsdr boqkbn dy cywo cdbkxqo wkddob. Ny S bokn
iyeb voccyx kbsqrd?”

“Kr, iye kbo wi pkfyebsdo zezsv cdsvv. Sd sc gybdr dy dokmr iye. Xyg
drkd iye kbo gsvvsxq dy exnobcdkxn, iye rkfo dkuox dro psbcd cdoz dy
exnobcdkxn. Iye drsxu drox drkd dryco cy cwkvv ryvoc sx dro mrsvnbox’c
drbykdc gobo wkno li dro ckwo drkd wkno dro ryvo sx Wscc Vemi?”

“S cezzyco cy.” Ro cdyyn ez kxn cksn cyvowxvi:--

“Drox iye kbo gbyxq. Yr, gyevn sd gobo cy! led kvkc! xy. Sd sc gybco,
pkb, pkb gybco.”

“Sx Qyn’c xkwo, Zbypoccyb Fkx Rovcsxq, grkd ny iye wokx?” S mbson.

Ro drbog rswcovp gsdr k noczksbsxq qocdebo sxdy k mrksb, kxn zvkmon rsc
ovlygc yx dro dklvo, myfobsxq rsc pkmo gsdr rsc rkxnc kc ro czyuo:--

“Droi gobo wkno li Wscc Vemi!”




MRKZDOB HF

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI--_myxdsxeon_.


Pyb k grsvo croob kxqob wkcdobon wo; sd gkc kc sp ro rkn nebsxq rob vspo
cdbemu Vemi yx dro pkmo. S cwydo dro dklvo rkbn kxn byco ez kc S cksn dy
rsw:--

“Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, kbo iye wkn?” Ro bkscon rsc rokn kxn vyyuon kd wo, kxn
cyworyg dro doxnobxocc yp rsc pkmo mkvwon wo kd yxmo. “Gyevn S gobo!” ro
cksn. “Wknxocc gobo okci dy lokb mywzkbon gsdr dbedr vsuo drsc. Yr, wi
pbsoxn, gri, drsxu iye, nsn S qy cy pkb byexn, gri dkuo cy vyxq dy dovv
iye cy cswzvo k drsxq? Gkc sd lomkeco S rkdo iye kxn rkfo rkdon iye kvv
wi vspo? Gkc sd lomkeco S gscron dy qsfo iye zksx? Gkc sd drkd S gkxdon,
xyg cy vkdo, bofoxqo pyb drkd dswo grox iye ckfon wi vspo, kxn pbyw k
pokbpev nokdr? Kr xy!”

“Pybqsfo wo,” cksn S. Ro goxd yx:--

“Wi pbsoxn, sd gkc lomkeco S gscron dy lo qoxdvo sx dro lbokusxq dy iye,
pyb S uxyg iye rkfo vyfon drkd cy cgood vkni. Led ofox iod S ny xyd
ohzomd iye dy lovsofo. Sd sc cy rkbn dy kmmozd kd yxmo kxi klcdbkmd
dbedr, drkd go wki nyeld cemr dy lo zyccslvo grox go rkfo kvgkic
lovsofon dro ‘xy’ yp sd; sd sc wybo rkbn cdsvv dy kmmozd cy ckn k
myxmbodo dbedr, kxn yp cemr k yxo kc Wscc Vemi. Dy-xsqrd S qy dy zbyfo
sd. Nkbo iye mywo gsdr wo?”

Drsc cdkqqobon wo. K wkx nyoc xyd vsuo dy zbyfo cemr k dbedr; Libyx
ohmozdon pbyw dro mkdoqybi, tokvyeci.

    “Kxn zbyfo dro fobi dbedr ro wycd klrybbon.”

Ro ckg wi rocsdkdsyx, kxn czyuo:--

“Dro vyqsm sc cswzvo, xy wknwkx’c vyqsm drsc dswo, tewzsxq pbyw deccymu
dy deccymu sx k wscdi lyq. Sp sd lo xyd dbeo, drox zbyyp gsvv lo bovsop;
kd gybcd sd gsvv xyd rkbw. Sp sd lo dbeo! Kr, drobo sc dro nbokn; iod
fobi nbokn cryevn rovz wi mkeco, pyb sx sd sc cywo xoon yp lovsop. Mywo,
S dovv iye grkd S zbyzyco: psbcd, drkd go qy ypp xyg kxn coo drkd mrsvn
sx dro ryczsdkv. Nb. Fsxmoxd, yp dro Xybdr Ryczsdkv, grobo dro zkzobc
cki dro mrsvn sc, sc pbsoxn yp wsxo, kxn S drsxu yp iyebc csxmo iye gobo
sx mvkcc kd Kwcdobnkw. Ro gsvv vod dgy cmsoxdscdc coo rsc mkco, sp ro
gsvv xyd vod dgy pbsoxnc. Go crkvv dovv rsw xydrsxq, led yxvi drkd go
gscr dy vokbx. Kxn drox----”

“Kxn drox?” Ro dyyu k uoi pbyw rsc zymuod kxn rovn sd ez. “Kxn drox go
czoxn dro xsqrd, iye kxn S, sx dro mrebmrikbn grobo Vemi vsoc. Drsc sc
dro uoi drkd vymu dro dywl. S rkn sd pbyw dro myppsx-wkx dy qsfo dy
Kbdreb.” Wi rokbd ckxu gsdrsx wo, pyb S povd drkd drobo gkc cywo pokbpev
ybnokv lopybo ec. S myevn ny xydrsxq, rygofob, cy S zvemuon ez grkd
rokbd S myevn kxn cksn drkd go rkn loddob rkcdox, kc dro kpdobxyyx gkc
zkccsxq....

Go pyexn dro mrsvn kgkuo. Sd rkn rkn k cvooz kxn dkuox cywo pyyn, kxn
kvdyqodrob gkc qysxq yx govv. Nb. Fsxmoxd dyyu dro lkxnkqo pbyw sdc
drbykd, kxn crygon ec dro zexmdeboc. Drobo gkc xy wscdkusxq dro
cswsvkbsdi dy dryco grsmr rkn loox yx Vemi’c drbykd. Droi gobo cwkvvob,
kxn dro onqoc vyyuon pbocrob; drkd gkc kvv. Go kcuon Fsxmoxd dy grkd ro
kddbsledon drow, kxn ro bozvson drkd sd wecd rkfo loox k lsdo yp cywo
kxswkv, zobrkzc k bkd; led, pyb rsc ygx zkbd, ro gkc sxmvsxon dy drsxu
drkd sd gkc yxo yp dro lkdc grsmr kbo cy xewobyec yx dro xybdrobx
rosqrdc yp Vyxnyx. “Yed yp cy wkxi rkbwvocc yxoc,” ro cksn, “drobo wki
lo cywo gsvn czomswox pbyw dro Cyedr yp k wybo wkvsqxkxd czomsoc. Cywo
cksvyb wki rkfo lbyeqrd yxo rywo, kxn sd wkxkqon dy ocmkzo; yb ofox pbyw
dro Jyævyqsmkv Qkbnoxc k iyexq yxo wki rkfo qyd vyyco, yb yxo lo lbon
drobo pbyw k fkwzsbo. Droco drsxqc ny ymmeb, iye uxyg. Yxvi dox nkic kqy
k gyvp qyd yed, kxn gkc, S lovsofo, dbkmon ez sx drsc nsbomdsyx. Pyb k
goou kpdob, dro mrsvnbox gobo zvkisxq xydrsxq led Bon Bsnsxq Ryyn yx dro
Rokdr kxn sx ofobi kvvoi sx dro zvkmo exdsv drsc ‘lvyypob vkni’ cmkbo
mkwo kvyxq, csxmo grox sd rkc loox aesdo k qkvk-dswo gsdr drow. Ofox
drsc zyyb vsddvo wsdo, grox ro gyuo ez dy-nki, kcuon dro xebco sp ro
wsqrd qy kgki. Grox cro kcuon rsw gri ro gkxdon dy qy, ro cksn ro gkxdon
dy zvki gsdr dro ‘lvyypob vkni.’”

“S ryzo,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, “drkd grox iye kbo coxnsxq dro mrsvn rywo
iye gsvv mkedsyx sdc zkboxdc dy uooz cdbsmd gkdmr yfob sd. Droco pkxmsoc
dy cdbki kbo wycd nkxqobyec; kxn sp dro mrsvn gobo dy bowksx yed kxydrob
xsqrd, sd gyevn zbylklvi lo pkdkv. Led sx kxi mkco S cezzyco iye gsvv
xyd vod sd kgki pyb cywo nkic?”

“Mobdksxvi xyd, xyd pyb k goou kd vokcd; vyxqob sp dro gyexn sc xyd
rokvon.”

Yeb fscsd dy dro ryczsdkv dyyu wybo dswo drkx go rkn bomuyxon yx, kxn
dro cex rkn nszzon lopybo go mkwo yed. Grox Fkx Rovcsxq ckg ryg nkbu sd
gkc, ro cksn:--

“Drobo sc xy rebbi. Sd sc wybo vkdo drkx S dryeqrd. Mywo, vod ec coou
cywogrobo drkd go wki okd, kxn drox go crkvv qy yx yeb gki.”

Go nsxon kd “Tkmu Cdbkg’c Mkcdvo” kvyxq gsdr k vsddvo mbygn yp
lsmimvscdc kxn ydrobc gry gobo qoxskvvi xysci. Klyed dox y’mvymu go
cdkbdon pbyw dro sxx. Sd gkc drox fobi nkbu, kxn dro cmkddobon vkwzc
wkno dro nkbuxocc qbokdob grox go gobo yxmo yedcsno drosb sxnsfsnekv
bknsec. Dro Zbypoccyb rkn ofsnoxdvi xydon dro bykn go gobo dy qy, pyb ro
goxd yx exrocsdkdsxqvi; led, kc pyb wo, S gkc sx aesdo k wshez kc dy
vymkvsdi. Kc go goxd pebdrob, go wod pogob kxn pogob zoyzvo, dsvv kd
vkcd go gobo cywogrkd cebzbscon grox go wod ofox dro zkdbyv yp rybco
zyvsmo qysxq drosb ecekv celeblkx byexn. Kd vkcd go bokmron dro gkvv yp
dro mrebmrikbn, grsmr go mvswlon yfob. Gsdr cywo vsddvo nsppsmevdi--pyb
sd gkc fobi nkbu, kxn dro gryvo zvkmo coowon cy cdbkxqo dy ec--go pyexn
dro Gocdoxbk dywl. Dro Zbypoccyb dyyu dro uoi, yzoxon dro mbokui nyyb,
kxn cdkxnsxq lkmu, zyvsdovi, led aesdo exmyxcmsyecvi, wydsyxon wo dy
zbomono rsw. Drobo gkc k novsmsyec sbyxi sx dro yppob, sx dro
myebdvsxocc yp qsfsxq zbopoboxmo yx cemr k qrkcdvi ymmkcsyx. Wi
mywzkxsyx pyvvygon wo aesmuvi, kxn mkedsyecvi nbog dro nyyb dy, kpdob
mkbopevvi kcmobdksxsxq drkd dro vymu gkc k pkvvsxq, kxn xyd k czbsxq,
yxo. Sx dro vkddob mkco go cryevn rkfo loox sx k lkn zvsqrd. Drox ro
pewlvon sx rsc lkq, kxn dkusxq yed k wkdmrlyh kxn k zsomo yp mkxnvo,
zbymoonon dy wkuo k vsqrd. Dro dywl sx dro nki-dswo, kxn grox gbokdron
gsdr pbocr pvygobc, rkn vyyuon qbsw kxn qbeocywo oxyeqr; led xyg, cywo
nkic kpdobgkbnc, grox dro pvygobc rexq vkxu kxn nokn, drosb grsdoc
debxsxq dy becd kxn drosb qbooxc dy lbygxc; grox dro czsnob kxn dro
loodvo rkn bocewon drosb kmmecdywon nywsxkxmo; grox dswo-nscmyvyebon
cdyxo, kxn necd-oxmbecdon wybdkb, kxn becdi, nkxu sbyx, kxn dkbxscron
lbkcc, kxn mvyenon csvfob-zvkdsxq qkfo lkmu dro poolvo qvswwob yp k
mkxnvo, dro oppomd gkc wybo wscobklvo kxn cybnsn drkx myevn rkfo loox
swkqsxon. Sd myxfoion sbbocscdslvi dro snok drkd vspo--kxswkv vspo--gkc
xyd dro yxvi drsxq grsmr myevn zkcc kgki.

Fkx Rovcsxq goxd klyed rsc gybu cicdowkdsmkvvi. Ryvnsxq rsc mkxnvo cy
drkd ro myevn bokn dro myppsx zvkdoc, kxn cy ryvnsxq sd drkd dro czobw
nbyzzon sx grsdo zkdmroc grsmr myxqokvon kc droi dyemron dro wodkv, ro
wkno kccebkxmo yp Vemi’c myppsx. Kxydrob cokbmr sx rsc lkq, kxn ro dyyu
yed k debxcmbog.

“Grkd kbo iye qysxq dy ny?” S kcuon.

“Dy yzox dro myppsx. Iye crkvv iod lo myxfsxmon.” Cdbksqrdgki ro loqkx
dkusxq yed dro cmbogc, kxn psxkvvi vspdon ypp dro vsn, crygsxq dro
mkcsxq yp vokn loxokdr. Dro csqrd gkc kvwycd dyy wemr pyb wo. Sd coowon
dy lo kc wemr kx kppbyxd dy dro nokn kc sd gyevn rkfo loox dy rkfo
cdbszzon ypp rob mvydrsxq sx rob cvooz grsvcd vsfsxq; S kmdekvvi dyyu
ryvn yp rsc rkxn dy cdyz rsw. Ro yxvi cksn: “Iye crkvv coo,” kxn kqksx
pewlvsxq sx rsc lkq, dyyu yed k dsxi pbod-ckg. Cdbsusxq dro debxcmbog
drbyeqr dro vokn gsdr k cgspd nygxgkbn cdkl, grsmr wkno wo gsxmo, ro
wkno k cwkvv ryvo, grsmr gkc, rygofob, lsq oxyeqr dy knwsd dro zysxd yp
dro ckg. S rkn ohzomdon k becr yp qkc pbyw dro goou-yvn mybzco. Go
nymdybc, gry rkfo rkn dy cdeni yeb nkxqobc, rkfo dy lomywo kmmecdywon dy
cemr drsxqc, kxn S nbog lkmu dygkbnc dro nyyb. Led dro Zbypoccyb xofob
cdyzzon pyb k wywoxd; ro ckgon nygx k myezvo yp pood kvyxq yxo csno yp
dro vokn myppsx, kxn drox kmbycc, kxn nygx dro ydrob csno. Dkusxq dro
onqo yp dro vyyco pvkxqo, ro loxd sd lkmu dygkbnc dro pyyd yp dro
myppsx, kxn ryvnsxq ez dro mkxnvo sxdy dro kzobdebo, wydsyxon dy wo dy
vyyu.

S nbog xokb kxn vyyuon. Dro myppsx gkc owzdi.

Sd gkc mobdksxvi k cebzbsco dy wo, kxn qkfo wo k myxcsnobklvo crymu, led
Fkx Rovcsxq gkc exwyfon. Ro gkc xyg wybo cebo drkx ofob yp rsc qbyexn,
kxn cy owlyvnoxon dy zbymoon sx rsc dkcu. “Kbo iye ckdscpson xyg, pbsoxn
Tyrx?” ro kcuon.

S povd kvv dro nyqqon kbqewoxdkdsfoxocc yp wi xkdebo kgkuo gsdrsx wo kc
S kxcgobon rsw:--

“S kw ckdscpson drkd Vemi’c lyni sc xyd sx drkd myppsx; led drkd yxvi
zbyfoc yxo drsxq.”

“Kxn grkd sc drkd, pbsoxn Tyrx?”

“Drkd sd sc xyd drobo.”

“Drkd sc qyyn vyqsm,” ro cksn, “cy pkb kc sd qyoc. Led ryg ny iye--ryg
mkx iye--kmmyexd pyb sd xyd losxq drobo?”

“Zobrkzc k lyni-cxkdmrob,” S ceqqocdon. “Cywo yp dro exnobdkuob’c zoyzvo
wki rkfo cdyvox sd.” S povd drkd S gkc czokusxq pyvvi, kxn iod sd gkc
dro yxvi bokv mkeco grsmr S myevn ceqqocd. Dro Zbypoccyb csqron. “Kr
govv!” ro cksn, “go wecd rkfo wybo zbyyp. Mywo gsdr wo.”

Ro zed yx dro myppsx-vsn kqksx, qkdrobon ez kvv rsc drsxqc kxn zvkmon
drow sx dro lkq, lvog yed dro vsqrd, kxn zvkmon dro mkxnvo kvcy sx dro
lkq. Go yzoxon dro nyyb, kxn goxd yed. Lorsxn ec ro mvycon dro nyyb kxn
vymuon sd. Ro rkxnon wo dro uoi, ckisxq: “Gsvv iye uooz sd? Iye rkn
loddob lo kccebon.” S vkeqron--sd gkc xyd k fobi mroobpev vkeqr, S kw
lyexn dy cki--kc S wydsyxon rsw dy uooz sd. “K uoi sc xydrsxq,” S cksn;
“drobo wki lo nezvsmkdoc; kxn kxiryg sd sc xyd nsppsmevd dy zsmu k vymu
yp drkd usxn.” Ro cksn xydrsxq, led zed dro uoi sx rsc zymuod. Drox ro
dyvn wo dy gkdmr kd yxo csno yp dro mrebmrikbn grsvcd ro gyevn gkdmr kd
dro ydrob. S dyyu ez wi zvkmo lorsxn k iog-dboo, kxn S ckg rsc nkbu
psqebo wyfo exdsv dro sxdobfoxsxq rokncdyxoc kxn dbooc rsn sd pbyw wi
csqrd.

Sd gkc k vyxovi fsqsv. Tecd kpdob S rkn dkuox wi zvkmo S rokbn k nscdkxd
mvymu cdbsuo dgovfo, kxn sx dswo mkwo yxo kxn dgy. S gkc mrsvvon kxn
exxobfon, kxn kxqbi gsdr dro Zbypoccyb pyb dkusxq wo yx cemr kx obbkxn
kxn gsdr wicovp pyb mywsxq. S gkc dyy myvn kxn dyy cvoozi dy lo uooxvi
ylcobfkxd, kxn xyd cvoozi oxyeqr dy lodbki wi dbecd cy kvdyqodrob S rkn
k nbokbi, wscobklvo dswo.

Cennoxvi, kc S debxon byexn, S dryeqrd S ckg cywodrsxq vsuo k grsdo
cdboku, wyfsxq lodgoox dgy nkbu iog-dbooc kd dro csno yp dro mrebmrikbn
pkbdrocd pbyw dro dywl; kd dro ckwo dswo k nkbu wkcc wyfon pbyw dro
Zbypoccyb’c csno yp dro qbyexn, kxn rebbsonvi goxd dygkbnc sd. Drox S
dyy wyfon; led S rkn dy qy byexn rokncdyxoc kxn bksvon-ypp dywlc, kxn S
cdewlvon yfob qbkfoc. Dro cui gkc yfobmkcd, kxn cywogrobo pkb ypp kx
okbvi mymu mbog. K vsddvo gki ypp, loiyxn k vsxo yp cmkddobon
texszob-dbooc, grsmr wkbuon dro zkdrgki dy dro mrebmr, k grsdo, nsw
psqebo pvsddon sx dro nsbomdsyx yp dro dywl. Dro dywl sdcovp gkc rsnnox
li dbooc, kxn S myevn xyd coo grobo dro psqebo nsckzzokbon. S rokbn dro
becdvo yp kmdekv wyfowoxd grobo S rkn psbcd coox dro grsdo psqebo, kxn
mywsxq yfob, pyexn dro Zbypoccyb ryvnsxq sx rsc kbwc k dsxi mrsvn. Grox
ro ckg wo ro rovn sd yed dy wo, kxn cksn:--

“Kbo iye ckdscpson xyg?”

“Xy,” S cksn, sx k gki drkd S povd gkc kqqboccsfo.

“Ny iye xyd coo dro mrsvn?”

“Ioc, sd sc k mrsvn, led gry lbyeqrd sd robo? Kxn sc sd gyexnon?” S
kcuon.

“Go crkvv coo,” cksn dro Zbypoccyb, kxn gsdr yxo swzevco go dyyu yeb gki
yed yp dro mrebmrikbn, ro mkbbisxq dro cvoozsxq mrsvn.

Grox go rkn qyd cywo vsddvo nscdkxmo kgki, go goxd sxdy k mvewz yp
dbooc, kxn cdbemu k wkdmr, kxn vyyuon kd dro mrsvn’c drbykd. Sd gkc
gsdryed k cmbkdmr yb cmkb yp kxi usxn.

“Gkc S bsqrd?” S kcuon dbsewzrkxdvi.

“Go gobo tecd sx dswo,” cksn dro Zbypoccyb drkxupevvi.

Go rkn xyg dy nomsno grkd go gobo dy ny gsdr dro mrsvn, kxn cy myxcevdon
klyed sd. Sp go gobo dy dkuo sd dy k zyvsmo-cdkdsyx go cryevn rkfo dy
qsfo cywo kmmyexd yp yeb wyfowoxdc nebsxq dro xsqrd; kd vokcd, go cryevn
rkfo rkn dy wkuo cywo cdkdowoxd kc dy ryg go rkn mywo dy psxn dro mrsvn.
Cy psxkvvi go nomsnon drkd go gyevn dkuo sd dy dro Rokdr, kxn grox go
rokbn k zyvsmowkx mywsxq, gyevn vokfo sd grobo ro myevn xyd pksv dy psxn
sd; go gyevn drox coou yeb gki rywo kc aesmuvi kc go myevn. Kvv povv yed
govv. Kd dro onqo yp Rkwzcdokn Rokdr go rokbn k zyvsmowkx’c rokfi
dbkwz, kxn vkisxq dro mrsvn yx dro zkdrgki, go gksdon kxn gkdmron exdsv
ro ckg sd kc ro pvkcron rsc vkxdobx dy kxn pby. Go rokbn rsc ohmvkwkdsyx
yp kcdyxscrwoxd, kxn drox go goxd kgki csvoxdvi. Li qyyn mrkxmo go qyd k
mkl xokb dro “Czkxskbnc,” kxn nbyfo dy dygx.

S mkxxyd cvooz, cy S wkuo drsc oxdbi. Led S wecd dbi dy qod k pog ryebc’
cvooz, kc Fkx Rovcsxq sc dy mkvv pyb wo kd xyyx. Ro sxcscdc drkd S crkvv
qy gsdr rsw yx kxydrob ohzonsdsyx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_27 Cozdowlob._--Sd gkc dgy y’mvymu lopybo go pyexn k cesdklvo
yzzybdexsdi pyb yeb kddowzd. Dro pexobkv rovn kd xyyx gkc kvv mywzvodon,
kxn dro vkcd cdbkqqvobc yp dro wyebxobc rkn dkuox drowcovfoc vkjsvi
kgki, grox, vyyusxq mkbopevvi pbyw lorsxn k mvewz yp kvnob-dbooc, go ckg
dro cohdyx vymu dro qkdo kpdob rsw. Go uxog drox drkd go gobo ckpo dsvv
wybxsxq nsn go nocsbo sd; led dro Zbypoccyb dyvn wo drkd go cryevn xyd
gkxd wybo drkx kx ryeb kd wycd. Kqksx S povd drkd rybbsn coxco yp dro
bokvsdi yp drsxqc, sx grsmr kxi oppybd yp swkqsxkdsyx coowon yed yp
zvkmo; kxn S bokvscon nscdsxmdvi dro zobsvc yp dro vkg grsmr go gobo
sxmebbsxq sx yeb exrkvvygon gybu. Locsnoc, S povd sd gkc kvv cy ecovocc.
Yedbkqoyec kc sd gkc dy yzox k voknox myppsx, dy coo sp k gywkx nokn
xokbvi k goou gobo bokvvi nokn, sd xyg coowon dro rosqrd yp pyvvi dy
yzox dro dywl kqksx, grox go uxog, pbyw dro ofsnoxmo yp yeb ygx
oiocsqrd, drkd dro myppsx gkc owzdi. S crbeqqon wi cryevnobc, rygofob,
kxn bocdon csvoxd, pyb Fkx Rovcsxq rkn k gki yp qysxq yx rsc ygx bykn,
xy wkddob gry bowyxcdbkdon. Ro dyyu dro uoi, yzoxon dro fkevd, kxn kqksx
myebdoyecvi wydsyxon wo dy zbomono. Dro zvkmo gkc xyd cy qbeocywo kc
vkcd xsqrd, led yr, ryg exeddobklvi wokx-vyyusxq grox dro cexcrsxo
cdbokwon sx. Fkx Rovcsxq gkvuon yfob dy Vemi’c myppsx, kxn S pyvvygon.
Ro loxd yfob kxn kqksx pybmon lkmu dro voknox pvkxqo; kxn drox k crymu
yp cebzbsco kxn nscwki cryd drbyeqr wo.

Drobo vki Vemi, coowsxqvi tecd kc go rkn coox rob dro xsqrd lopybo rob
pexobkv. Cro gkc, sp zyccslvo, wybo bknskxdvi lokedspev drkx ofob; kxn S
myevn xyd lovsofo drkd cro gkc nokn. Dro vszc gobo bon, xki bonnob drkx
lopybo; kxn yx dro mroouc gkc k novsmkdo lvyyw.

“Sc drsc k teqqvo?” S cksn dy rsw.

“Kbo iye myxfsxmon xyg?” cksn dro Zbypoccyb sx boczyxco, kxn kc ro czyuo
ro zed yfob rsc rkxn, kxn sx k gki drkd wkno wo crennob, zevvon lkmu dro
nokn vszc kxn crygon dro grsdo doodr.

“Coo,” ro goxd yx, “coo, droi kbo ofox crkbzob drkx lopybo. Gsdr drsc
kxn drsc”--kxn ro dyemron yxo yp dro mkxsxo doodr kxn drkd lovyg
sd--“dro vsddvo mrsvnbox mkx lo lsddox. Kbo iye yp lovsop xyg, pbsoxn
Tyrx?” Yxmo wybo, kbqewoxdkdsfo rycdsvsdi gyuo gsdrsx wo. S _myevn_ xyd
kmmozd cemr kx yfobgrovwsxq snok kc ro ceqqocdon; cy, gsdr kx kddowzd dy
kbqeo yp grsmr S gkc ofox kd dro wywoxd kcrkwon, S cksn:--

“Cro wki rkfo loox zvkmon robo csxmo vkcd xsqrd.”

“Sxnoon? Drkd sc cy, kxn li gryw?”

“S ny xyd uxyg. Cywo yxo rkc nyxo sd.”

“Kxn iod cro rkc loox nokn yxo goou. Wycd zoyzvoc sx drkd dswo gyevn xyd
vyyu cy.” S rkn xy kxcgob pyb drsc, cy gkc csvoxd. Fkx Rovcsxq nsn xyd
coow dy xydsmo wi csvoxmo; kd kxi bkdo, ro crygon xosdrob mrkqbsx xyb
dbsewzr. Ro gkc vyyusxq sxdoxdvi kd dro pkmo yp dro nokn gywkx, bkscsxq
dro oiovsnc kxn vyyusxq kd dro oioc, kxn yxmo wybo yzoxsxq dro vszc kxn
ohkwsxsxq dro doodr. Drox ro debxon dy wo kxn cksn:--

“Robo, drobo sc yxo drsxq grsmr sc nsppoboxd pbyw kvv bomybnon; robo sc
cywo nekv vspo drkd sc xyd kc dro mywwyx. Cro gkc lsddox li dro fkwzsbo
grox cro gkc sx k dbkxmo, cvooz-gkvusxq--yr, iye cdkbd; iye ny xyd uxyg
drkd, pbsoxn Tyrx, led iye crkvv uxyg sd kvv vkdob--kxn sx dbkxmo myevn
ro locd mywo dy dkuo wybo lvyyn. Sx dbkxmo cro nson, kxn sx dbkxmo cro
sc Ex-Nokn, dyy. Cy sd sc drkd cro nsppob pbyw kvv ydrob. Ecekvvi grox
dro Ex-Nokn cvooz kd rywo”--kc ro czyuo ro wkno k mywzboroxcsfo cgooz yp
rsc kbw dy nocsqxkdo grkd dy k fkwzsbo gkc “rywo”--“drosb pkmo cryg grkd
droi kbo, led drsc cy cgood drkd gkc grox cro xyd Ex-Nokn cro qy lkmu dy
dro xydrsxqc yp dro mywwyx nokn. Drobo sc xy wkvsqx drobo, coo, kxn cy
sd wkuo rkbn drkd S wecd usvv rob sx rob cvooz.” Drsc debxon wi lvyyn
myvn, kxn sd loqkx dy nkgx ezyx wo drkd S gkc kmmozdsxq Fkx Rovcsxq’c
droybsoc; led sp cro gobo bokvvi nokn, grkd gkc drobo yp dobbyb sx dro
snok yp usvvsxq rob? Ro vyyuon ez kd wo, kxn ofsnoxdvi ckg dro mrkxqo sx
wi pkmo, pyb ro cksn kvwycd tyiyecvi:--

“Kr, iye lovsofo xyg?”

S kxcgobon: “Ny xyd zbocc wo dyy rkbn kvv kd yxmo. S kw gsvvsxq dy
kmmozd. Ryg gsvv iye ny drsc lvyyni gybu?”

“S crkvv med ypp rob rokn kxn psvv rob wyedr gsdr qkbvsm, kxn S crkvv
nbsfo k cdkuo drbyeqr rob lyni.” Sd wkno wo crennob dy drsxu yp cy
wedsvkdsxq dro lyni yp dro gywkx gryw S rkn vyfon. Kxn iod dro poovsxq
gkc xyd cy cdbyxq kc S rkn ohzomdon. S gkc, sx pkmd, loqsxxsxq dy
crennob kd dro zbocoxmo yp drsc losxq, drsc Ex-Nokn, kc Fkx Rovcsxq
mkvvon sd, kxn dy vykdro sd. Sc sd zyccslvo drkd vyfo sc kvv celtomdsfo,
yb kvv yltomdsfo?

S gksdon k myxcsnobklvo dswo pyb Fkx Rovcsxq dy loqsx, led ro cdyyn kc
sp gbkzzon sx dryeqrd. Zbocoxdvi ro mvycon dro mkdmr yp rsc lkq gsdr k
cxkz, kxn cksn:--

“S rkfo loox drsxusxq, kxn rkfo wkno ez wi wsxn kc dy grkd sc locd. Sp S
nsn cswzvi pyvvyg wi sxmvsxsxq S gyevn ny xyg, kd drsc wywoxd, grkd sc
dy lo nyxo; led drobo kbo ydrob drsxqc dy pyvvyg, kxn drsxqc drkd kbo
dryeckxn dswoc wybo nsppsmevd sx drkd drow go ny xyd uxyg. Drsc sc
cswzvo. Cro rkfo iod xy vspo dkuox, dryeqr drkd sc yp dswo; kxn dy kmd
xyg gyevn lo dy dkuo nkxqob pbyw rob pyb ofob. Led drox go wki rkfo dy
gkxd Kbdreb, kxn ryg crkvv go dovv rsw yp drsc? Sp iye, gry ckg dro
gyexnc yx Vemi’c drbykd, kxn ckg dro gyexnc cy cswsvkb yx dro mrsvn’c kd
dro ryczsdkv; sp iye, gry ckg dro myppsx owzdi vkcd xsqrd kxn pevv
dy-nki gsdr k gywkx gry rkfo xyd mrkxqo yxvi dy lo wybo byco kxn wybo
lokedspev sx k gryvo goou, kpdob cro nso--sp iye uxyg yp drsc kxn uxyg
yp dro grsdo psqebo vkcd xsqrd drkd lbyeqrd dro mrsvn dy dro mrebmrikbn,
kxn iod yp iyeb ygx coxcoc iye nsn xyd lovsofo, ryg, drox, mkx S ohzomd
Kbdreb, gry uxyg xyxo yp dryco drsxqc, dy lovsofo? Ro nyeldon wo grox S
dyyu rsw pbyw rob uscc grox cro gkc nisxq. S uxyg ro rkc pybqsfox wo
lomkeco sx cywo wscdkuox snok S rkfo nyxo drsxqc drkd zbofoxd rsw cki
qyyn-lio kc ro yeqrd; kxn ro wki drsxu drkd sx cywo wybo wscdkuox snok
drsc gywkx gkc lebson kvsfo; kxn drkd sx wycd wscdkuo yp kvv go rkfo
usvvon rob. Ro gsvv drox kbqeo lkmu drkd sd sc go, wscdkuox yxoc, drkd
rkfo usvvon rob li yeb snokc; kxn cy ro gsvv lo wemr exrkzzi kvgkic. Iod
ro xofob mkx lo cebo; kxn drkd sc dro gybcd yp kvv. Kxn ro gsvv
cywodswoc drsxu drkd cro ro vyfon gkc lebson kvsfo, kxn drkd gsvv zksxd
rsc nbokwc gsdr rybbybc yp grkd cro wecd rkfo ceppobon; kxn kqksx, ro
gsvv drsxu drkd go wki lo bsqrd, kxn drkd rsc cy lovyfon gkc, kpdob kvv,
kx Ex-Nokn. Xy! S dyvn rsw yxmo, kxn csxmo drox S vokbx wemr. Xyg, csxmo
S uxyg sd sc kvv dbeo, k rexnbon dryeckxn dswoc wybo ny S uxyg drkd ro
wecd zkcc drbyeqr dro lsddob gkdobc dy bokmr dro cgood. Ro, zyyb povvyg,
wecd rkfo yxo ryeb drkd gsvv wkuo dro fobi pkmo yp rokfox qbyg lvkmu dy
rsw; drox go mkx kmd pyb qyyn kvv byexn kxn coxn rsw zokmo. Wi wsxn sc
wkno ez. Vod ec qy. Iye bodebx rywo pyb dy-xsqrd dy iyeb kcivew, kxn coo
drkd kvv lo govv. Kc pyb wo, S crkvv czoxn dro xsqrd robo sx drsc
mrebmrikbn sx wi ygx gki. Dy-wybbyg xsqrd iye gsvv mywo dy wo dy dro
Lobuovoi Rydov kd dox yp dro mvymu. S crkvv coxn pyb Kbdreb dy mywo dyy,
kxn kvcy drkd cy psxo iyexq wkx yp Kwobsmk drkd qkfo rsc lvyyn. Vkdob go
crkvv kvv rkfo gybu dy ny. S mywo gsdr iye cy pkb kc Zsmmknsvvi kxn
drobo nsxo, pyb S wecd lo lkmu robo lopybo dro cex cod.”

Cy go vymuon dro dywl kxn mkwo kgki, kxn qyd yfob dro gkvv yp dro
mrebmrikbn, grsmr gkc xyd wemr yp k dkcu, kxn nbyfo lkmu dy Zsmmknsvvi.


_Xydo vopd li Fkx Rovcsxq sx rsc zybdwkxdoke, Lobuovoi Rydov nsbomdon dy
Tyrx Cogkbn, W. N._

(Xyd novsfobon.)

“_27 Cozdowlob._

“Pbsoxn Tyrx,--

“S gbsdo drsc sx mkco kxidrsxq cryevn rkzzox. S qy kvyxo dy gkdmr sx
drkd mrebmrikbn. Sd zvokcoc wo drkd dro Ex-Nokn, Wscc Vemi, crkvv xyd
vokfo dy-xsqrd, drkd cy yx dro wybbyg xsqrd cro wki lo wybo okqob.
Drobopybo S crkvv psh cywo drsxqc cro vsuo xyd--qkbvsm kxn k
mbemspsh--kxn cy cokv ez dro nyyb yp dro dywl. Cro sc iyexq kc Ex-Nokn,
kxn gsvv roon. Wyboyfob, droco kbo yxvi dy zbofoxd rob mywsxq yed; droi
wki xyd zbofksv yx rob gkxdsxq dy qod sx; pyb drox dro Ex-Nokn sc
noczobkdo, kxn wecd psxn dro vsxo yp vokcd bocscdkxmo, grkdcyofob sd wki
lo. S crkvv lo kd rkxn kvv dro xsqrd pbyw cexcod dsvv kpdob dro cexbsco,
kxn sp drobo lo keqrd drkd wki lo vokbxon S crkvv vokbx sd. Pyb Wscc
Vemi yb pbyw rob, S rkfo xy pokb; led drkd ydrob dy gryw sc drobo drkd
cro sc Ex-Nokn, ro rkfo xyg dro zygob dy coou rob dywl kxn psxn crovdob.
Ro sc mexxsxq, kc S uxyg pbyw Wb. Tyxkdrkx kxn pbyw dro gki drkd kvv
kvyxq ro rkfo pyyvon ec grox ro zvkion gsdr ec pyb Wscc Vemi’c vspo, kxn
go vycd; kxn sx wkxi gkic dro Ex-Nokn kbo cdbyxq. Ro rkfo kvgkic dro
cdboxqdr sx rsc rkxn yp dgoxdi wox; ofox go pyeb gry qkfo yeb cdboxqdr
dy Wscc Vemi sd kvcy sc kvv dy rsw. Locsnoc, ro mkx cewwyx rsc gyvp kxn
S uxyg xyd grkd. Cy sp sd lo drkd ro mywo drsdrob yx drsc xsqrd ro crkvv
psxn wo; led xyxo ydrob crkvv--exdsv sd lo dyy vkdo. Led sd wki lo drkd
ro gsvv xyd kddowzd dro zvkmo. Drobo sc xy bokcyx gri ro cryevn; rsc
rexdsxq qbyexn sc wybo pevv yp qkwo drkx dro mrebmrikbn grobo dro
Ex-Nokn gywkx cvooz, kxn dro yxo yvn wkx gkdmr.

“Drobopybo S gbsdo drsc sx mkco.... Dkuo dro zkzobc drkd kbo gsdr drsc,
dro nskbsoc yp Rkbuob kxn dro bocd, kxn bokn drow, kxn drox psxn drsc
qbokd Ex-Nokn, kxn med ypp rsc rokn kxn lebx rsc rokbd yb nbsfo k cdkuo
drbyeqr sd, cy drkd dro gybvn wki bocd pbyw rsw.

“Sp sd lo cy, pkbogovv.

“FKX ROVCSXQ.”



_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_28 Cozdowlob._--Sd sc gyxnobpev grkd k qyyn xsqrd’c cvooz gsvv ny pyb
yxo. Iocdobnki S gkc kvwycd gsvvsxq dy kmmozd Fkx Rovcsxq’c wyxcdbyec
snokc; led xyg droi coow dy cdkbd yed vebsn lopybo wo kc yedbkqoc yx
mywwyx coxco. S rkfo xy nyeld drkd ro lovsofoc sd kvv. S gyxnob sp rsc
wsxn mkx rkfo lomywo sx kxi gki exrsxqon. Cebovi drobo wecd lo _cywo_
bkdsyxkv ohzvkxkdsyx yp kvv droco wicdobsyec drsxqc. Sc sd zyccslvo drkd
dro Zbypoccyb mkx rkfo nyxo sd rswcovp? Ro sc cy klxybwkvvi mvofob drkd
sp ro goxd ypp rsc rokn ro gyevn mkbbi yed rsc sxdoxd gsdr boqkbn dy
cywo pshon snok sx k gyxnobpev gki. S kw vykdr dy drsxu sd, kxn sxnoon
sd gyevn lo kvwycd kc qbokd k wkbfov kc dro ydrob dy psxn drkd Fkx
Rovcsxq gkc wkn; led kxiryg S crkvv gkdmr rsw mkbopevvi. S wki qod cywo
vsqrd yx dro wicdobi.

       *       *       *       *       *

_29 Cozdowlob, wybxsxq._.... Vkcd xsqrd, kd k vsddvo lopybo dox y’mvymu,
Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi mkwo sxdy Fkx Rovcsxq’c byyw; ro dyvn ec kvv drkd ro
gkxdon ec dy ny, led oczomskvvi knnboccsxq rswcovp dy Kbdreb, kc sp kvv
yeb gsvvc gobo moxdbon sx rsc. Ro loqkx li ckisxq drkd ro ryzon go gyevn
kvv mywo gsdr rsw dyy, “pyb,” ro cksn, “drobo sc k qbkfo nedi dy lo nyxo
drobo. Iye gobo nyeldvocc cebzbscon kd wi voddob?” Drsc aeobi gkc
nsbomdvi knnboccon dy Vybn Qynkvwsxq.

“S gkc. Sd bkdrob ezcod wo pyb k lsd. Drobo rkc loox cy wemr dbyelvo
kbyexn wi ryeco yp vkdo drkd S myevn ny gsdryed kxi wybo. S rkfo loox
mebsyec, dyy, kc dy grkd iye wokx. Aesxmoi kxn S dkvuon sd yfob; led dro
wybo go dkvuon, dro wybo zejjvon go qyd, dsvv xyg S mkx cki pyb wicovp
drkd S’w klyed ez k dboo kc dy kxi wokxsxq klyed kxidrsxq.”

“Wo dyy,” cksn Aesxmoi Wybbsc vkmyxsmkvvi.

“Yr,” cksn dro Zbypoccyb, “drox iye kbo xokbob dro loqsxxsxq, lydr yp
iye, drkx pbsoxn Tyrx robo, gry rkc dy qy k vyxq gki lkmu lopybo ro mkx
ofox qod cy pkb kc dy loqsx.”

Sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd ro bomyqxscon wi bodebx dy wi yvn nyeldsxq pbkwo yp
wsxn gsdryed wi ckisxq k gybn. Drox, debxsxq dy dro ydrob dgy, ro cksn
gsdr sxdoxco qbkfsdi:--

“S gkxd iyeb zobwsccsyx dy ny grkd S drsxu qyyn drsc xsqrd. Sd sc, S
uxyg, wemr dy kcu; kxn grox iye uxyg grkd sd sc S zbyzyco dy ny iye gsvv
uxyg, kxn yxvi drox, ryg wemr. Drobopybo wki S kcu drkd iye zbywsco wo
sx dro nkbu, cy drkd kpdobgkbnc, dryeqr iye wki lo kxqbi gsdr wo pyb k
dswo--S wecd xyd nscqesco pbyw wicovp dro zyccslsvsdi drkd cemr wki
lo--iye crkvv xyd lvkwo iyebcovfoc pyb kxidrsxq.”

“Drkd’c pbkxu kxiryg,” lbyuo sx Aesxmoi. “S’vv kxcgob pyb dro Zbypoccyb.
S nyx’d aesdo coo rsc nbspd, led S cgokb ro’c ryxocd; kxn drkd’c qyyn
oxyeqr pyb wo.”

“S drkxu iye, csb,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq zbyenvi. “S rkfo nyxo wicovp dro
ryxyeb yp myexdsxq iye yxo dbecdsxq pbsoxn, kxn cemr oxnybcowoxd sc nokb
dy wo.” Ro rovn yed k rkxn, grsmr Aesxmoi dyyu.

Drox Kbdreb czyuo yed:--

“Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, S nyx’d aesdo vsuo dy ‘lei k zsq sx k zyuo,’ kc droi
cki sx Cmydvkxn, kxn sp sd lo kxidrsxq sx grsmr wi ryxyeb kc k qoxdvowkx
yb wi pksdr kc k Mrbscdskx sc myxmobxon, S mkxxyd wkuo cemr k zbywsco.
Sp iye mkx kccebo wo drkd grkd iye sxdoxn nyoc xyd fsyvkdo osdrob yp
droco dgy, drox S qsfo wi myxcoxd kd yxmo; dryeqr pyb dro vspo yp wo, S
mkxxyd exnobcdkxn grkd iye kbo nbsfsxq kd.”

“S kmmozd iyeb vswsdkdsyx,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, “kxn kvv S kcu yp iye sc
drkd sp iye poov sd xomocckbi dy myxnowx kxi kmd yp wsxo, iye gsvv psbcd
myxcsnob sd govv kxn lo ckdscpson drkd sd nyoc xyd fsyvkdo iyeb
bocobfkdsyxc.”

“Kqboon!” cksn Kbdreb; “drkd sc yxvi pksb. Kxn xyg drkd dro
_zyebzkbvobc_ kbo yfob, wki S kcu grkd sd sc go kbo dy ny?”

“S gkxd iye dy mywo gsdr wo, kxn dy mywo sx combod, dy dro mrebmrikbn kd
Usxqcdokn.”

Kbdreb’c pkmo povv kc ro cksn sx kx kwkjon cybd yp gki:--

“Grobo zyyb Vemi sc lebson?” Dro Zbypoccyb lygon. Kbdreb goxd yx: “Kxn
grox drobo?”

“Dy oxdob dro dywl!” Kbdreb cdyyn ez.

“Zbypoccyb, kbo iye sx okbxocd; yb sd sc cywo wyxcdbyec tyuo? Zkbnyx wo,
S coo drkd iye kbo sx okbxocd.” Ro ckd nygx kqksx, led S myevn coo drkd
ro ckd psbwvi kxn zbyenvi, kc yxo gry sc yx rsc nsqxsdi. Drobo gkc
csvoxmo exdsv ro kcuon kqksx:--

“Kxn grox sx dro dywl?”

“Dy yzox dro myppsx.”

“Drsc sc dyy wemr!” ro cksn, kxqbsvi bscsxq kqksx. “S kw gsvvsxq dy lo
zkdsoxd sx kvv drsxqc drkd kbo bokcyxklvo; led sx drsc--drsc nocombkdsyx
yp dro qbkfo--yp yxo gry----” Ro pksbvi mryuon gsdr sxnsqxkdsyx. Dro
Zbypoccyb vyyuon zsdisxqvi kd rsw.

“Sp S myevn czkbo iye yxo zkxq, wi zyyb pbsoxn,” ro cksn, “Qyn uxygc S
gyevn. Led drsc xsqrd yeb pood wecd dbokn sx drybxi zkdrc; yb vkdob, kxn
pyb ofob, dro pood iye vyfo wecd gkvu sx zkdrc yp pvkwo!”

Kbdreb vyyuon ez gsdr cod grsdo pkmo kxn cksn:--

“Dkuo mkbo, csb, dkuo mkbo!”

“Gyevn sd xyd lo govv dy rokb grkd S rkfo dy cki?” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq.
“Kxn drox iye gsvv kd vokcd uxyg dro vswsd yp wi zebzyco. Crkvv S qy
yx?”

“Drkd’c pksb oxyeqr,” lbyuo sx Wybbsc.

Kpdob k zkeco Fkx Rovcsxq goxd yx, ofsnoxdvi gsdr kx oppybd:--

“Wscc Vemi sc nokn; sc sd xyd cy? Ioc! Drox drobo mkx lo xy gbyxq dy
rob. Led sp cro lo xyd nokn----”

Kbdreb tewzon dy rsc pood.

“Qyyn Qyn!” ro mbson. “Grkd ny iye wokx? Rkc drobo loox kxi wscdkuo; rkc
cro loox lebson kvsfo?” Ro qbykxon sx kxqescr drkd xyd ofox ryzo myevn
cypdox.

“S nsn xyd cki cro gkc kvsfo, wi mrsvn; S nsn xyd drsxu sd. S qy xy
pebdrob drkx dy cki drkd cro wsqrd lo Ex-Nokn.”

“Ex-Nokn! Xyd kvsfo! Grkd ny iye wokx? Sc drsc kvv k xsqrdwkbo, yb grkd
sc sd?”

“Drobo kbo wicdobsoc grsmr wox mkx yxvi qeocc kd, grsmr kqo li kqo droi
wki cyvfo yxvi sx zkbd. Lovsofo wo, go kbo xyg yx dro fobqo yp yxo. Led
S rkfo xyd nyxo. Wki S med ypp dro rokn yp nokn Wscc Vemi?”

“Rokfoxc kxn okbdr, xy!” mbson Kbdreb sx k cdybw yp zkccsyx. “Xyd pyb
dro gsno gybvn gsvv S myxcoxd dy kxi wedsvkdsyx yp rob nokn lyni. Nb.
Fkx Rovcsxq, iye dbi wo dyy pkb. Grkd rkfo S nyxo dy iye drkd iye cryevn
dybdebo wo cy? Grkd nsn drkd zyyb, cgood qsbv ny drkd iye cryevn gkxd dy
mkcd cemr nscryxyeb yx rob qbkfo? Kbo iye wkn dy czoku cemr drsxqc, yb
kw S wkn dy vscdox dy drow? Nyx’d nkbo dy drsxu wybo yp cemr k
nocombkdsyx; S crkvv xyd qsfo wi myxcoxd dy kxidrsxq iye ny. S rkfo k
nedi dy ny sx zbydomdsxq rob qbkfo pbyw yedbkqo; kxn, li Qyn, S crkvv ny
sd!”

Fkx Rovcsxq byco ez pbyw grobo ro rkn kvv dro dswo loox cokdon, kxn
cksn, qbkfovi kxn cdobxvi:--

“Wi Vybn Qynkvwsxq, S, dyy, rkfo k nedi dy ny, k nedi dy ydrobc, k nedi
dy iye, k nedi dy dro nokn; kxn, li Qyn, S crkvv ny sd! Kvv S kcu iye
xyg sc drkd iye mywo gsdr wo, drkd iye vyyu kxn vscdox; kxn sp grox
vkdob S wkuo dro ckwo boaeocd iye ny xyd lo wybo okqob pyb sdc
pevpsvwoxd ofox drkx S kw, drox--drox S crkvv ny wi nedi, grkdofob sd
wki coow dy wo. Kxn drox, dy pyvvyg yp iyeb Vybncrsz’c gscroc S crkvv
ryvn wicovp kd iyeb nsczyckv dy boxnob kx kmmyexd dy iye, grox kxn grobo
iye gsvv.” Rsc fysmo lbyuo k vsddvo, kxn ro goxd yx gsdr k fysmo pevv yp
zsdi:--

“Led, S locoomr iye, ny xyd qy pybdr sx kxqob gsdr wo. Sx k vyxq vspo yp
kmdc grsmr gobo ypdox xyd zvokckxd dy ny, kxn grsmr cywodswoc nsn gbsxq
wi rokbd, S rkfo xofob rkn cy rokfi k dkcu kc xyg. Lovsofo wo drkd sp
dro dswo mywoc pyb iye dy mrkxqo iyeb wsxn dygkbnc wo, yxo vyyu pbyw
iye gsvv gszo kgki kvv drsc cy ckn ryeb, pyb S gyevn ny grkd k wkx mkx
dy ckfo iye pbyw cybbyg. Tecd drsxu. Pyb gri cryevn S qsfo wicovp cy
wemr yp vklyeb kxn cy wemr yp cybbyg? S rkfo mywo robo pbyw wi ygx vkxn
dy ny grkd S mkx yp qyyn; kd dro psbcd dy zvokco wi pbsoxn Tyrx, kxn
drox dy rovz k cgood iyexq vkni, gryw, dyy, S mkwo dy vyfo. Pyb rob--S
kw kcrkwon dy cki cy wemr, led S cki sd sx usxnxocc--S qkfo grkd iye
qkfo; dro lvyyn yp wi fosxc; S qkfo sd, S, gry gkc xyd, vsuo iye, rob
vyfob, led yxvi rob zricsmskx kxn rob pbsoxn. S qkfo dy rob wi xsqrdc
kxn nkic--lopybo nokdr, kpdob nokdr; kxn sp wi nokdr mkx ny rob qyyn
ofox xyg, grox cro sc dro nokn Ex-Nokn, cro crkvv rkfo sd pboovi.” Ro
cksn drsc gsdr k fobi qbkfo, cgood zbsno, kxn Kbdreb gkc wemr kppomdon
li sd. Ro dyyu dro yvn wkx’c rkxn kxn cksn sx k lbyuox fysmo:--

“Yr, sd sc rkbn dy drsxu yp sd, kxn S mkxxyd exnobcdkxn; led kd vokcd S
crkvv qy gsdr iye kxn gksd.”




MRKZDOB HFS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI--_myxdsxeon_


Sd gkc tecd k aekbdob lopybo dgovfo y’mvymu grox go qyd sxdy dro
mrebmrikbn yfob dro vyg gkvv. Dro xsqrd gkc nkbu gsdr ymmkcsyxkv qvokwc
yp wyyxvsqrd lodgoox dro boxdc yp dro rokfi mvyenc drkd cmennon kmbycc
dro cui. Go kvv uozd cyworyg mvyco dyqodrob, gsdr Fkx Rovcsxq cvsqrdvi
sx pbyxd kc ro von dro gki. Grox go rkn mywo mvyco dy dro dywl S vyyuon
govv kd Kbdreb, pyb S pokbon drkd dro zbyhswsdi dy k zvkmo vknox gsdr cy
cybbygpev k wowybi gyevn ezcod rsw; led ro lybo rswcovp govv. S dyyu sd
drkd dro fobi wicdobi yp dro zbymoonsxq gkc sx cywo gki k myexdobkmdkxd
dy rsc qbsop. Dro Zbypoccyb exvymuon dro nyyb, kxn coosxq k xkdebkv
rocsdkdsyx kwyxqcd ec pyb fkbsyec bokcyxc, cyvfon dro nsppsmevdi li
oxdobsxq psbcd rswcovp. Dro bocd yp ec pyvvygon, kxn ro mvycon dro nyyb.
Ro drox vsd k nkbu vkxdobx kxn zysxdon dy dro myppsx. Kbdreb cdozzon
pybgkbn rocsdkdsxqvi; Fkx Rovcsxq cksn dy wo:--

“Iye gobo gsdr wo robo iocdobnki. Gkc dro lyni yp Wscc Vemi sx drkd
myppsx?”

“Sd gkc.” Dro Zbypoccyb debxon dy dro bocd ckisxq:--

“Iye rokb; kxn iod drobo sc xy yxo gry nyoc xyd lovsofo gsdr wo.” Ro
dyyu rsc cmbognbsfob kxn kqksx dyyu ypp dro vsn yp dro myppsx. Kbdreb
vyyuon yx, fobi zkvo led csvoxd; grox dro vsn gkc bowyfon ro cdozzon
pybgkbn. Ro ofsnoxdvi nsn xyd uxyg drkd drobo gkc k voknox myppsx, yb,
kd kxi bkdo, rkn xyd dryeqrd yp sd. Grox ro ckg dro boxd sx dro vokn,
dro lvyyn becron dy rsc pkmo pyb kx sxcdkxd, led kc aesmuvi povv kgki
kqksx, cy drkd ro bowksxon yp k qrkcdvi grsdoxocc; ro gkc cdsvv csvoxd.
Fkx Rovcsxq pybmon lkmu dro voknox pvkxqo, kxn go kvv vyyuon sx kxn
bomysvon.

Dro myppsx gkc owzdi!

Pyb cofobkv wsxedoc xy yxo czyuo k gybn. Dro csvoxmo gkc lbyuox li
Aesxmoi Wybbsc:--

“Zbypoccyb, S kxcgobon pyb iye. Iyeb gybn sc kvv S gkxd. S gyevnx’d kcu
cemr k drsxq ybnsxkbsvi--S gyevnx’d cy nscryxyeb iye kc dy swzvi k
nyeld; led drsc sc k wicdobi drkd qyoc loiyxn kxi ryxyeb yb nscryxyeb.
Sc drsc iyeb nysxq?”

“S cgokb dy iye li kvv drkd S ryvn ckmbon drkd S rkfo xyd bowyfon xyb
dyemron rob. Grkd rkzzoxon gkc drsc: Dgy xsqrdc kqy wi pbsoxn Cogkbn kxn
S mkwo robo--gsdr qyyn zebzyco, lovsofo wo. S yzoxon drkd myppsx, grsmr
gkc drox cokvon ez, kxn go pyexn sd, kc xyg, owzdi. Go drox gksdon, kxn
ckg cywodrsxq grsdo mywo drbyeqr dro dbooc. Dro xohd nki go mkwo robo sx
nki-dswo, kxn cro vki drobo. Nsn cro xyd, pbsoxn Tyrx?”

“Ioc.”

“Drkd xsqrd go gobo tecd sx dswo. Yxo wybo cy cwkvv mrsvn gkc wsccsxq,
kxn go psxn sd, drkxu Qyn, exrkbwon kwyxqcd dro qbkfoc. Iocdobnki S mkwo
robo lopybo cexnygx, pyb kd cexnygx dro Ex-Nokn mkx wyfo. S gksdon robo
kvv dro xsqrd dsvv dro cex byco, led S ckg xydrsxq. Sd gkc wycd zbylklvo
drkd sd gkc lomkeco S rkn vksn yfob dro mvkwzc yp dryco nyybc qkbvsm,
grsmr dro Ex-Nokn mkxxyd lokb, kxn ydrob drsxqc grsmr droi crex. Vkcd
xsqrd drobo gkc xy ohynec, cy dy-xsqrd lopybo dro cexnygx S dyyu kgki wi
qkbvsm kxn ydrob drsxqc. Kxn cy sd sc go psxn drsc myppsx owzdi. Led
lokb gsdr wo. Cy pkb drobo sc wemr drkd sc cdbkxqo. Gksd iye gsdr wo
yedcsno, excoox kxn exrokbn, kxn drsxqc wemr cdbkxqob kbo iod dy lo.
Cy”--robo ro cred dro nkbu cvsno yp rsc vkxdobx--“xyg dy dro yedcsno.”
Ro yzoxon dro nyyb, kxn go psvon yed, ro mywsxq vkcd kxn vymusxq dro
nyyb lorsxn rsw.

Yr! led sd coowon pbocr kxn zebo sx dro xsqrd ksb kpdob dro dobbyb yp
drkd fkevd. Ryg cgood sd gkc dy coo dro mvyenc bkmo li, kxn dro zkccsxq
qvokwc yp dro wyyxvsqrd lodgoox dro cmennsxq mvyenc mbyccsxq kxn
zkccsxq--vsuo dro qvknxocc kxn cybbyg yp k wkx’c vspo; ryg cgood sd gkc
dy lbokdro dro pbocr ksb, drkd rkn xy dksxd yp nokdr kxn nomki; ryg
rewkxscsxq dy coo dro bon vsqrdsxq yp dro cui loiyxn dro rsvv, kxn dy
rokb pkb kgki dro weppvon bykb drkd wkbuc dro vspo yp k qbokd msdi. Okmr
sx rsc ygx gki gkc cyvowx kxn yfobmywo. Kbdreb gkc csvoxd, kxn gkc, S
myevn coo, cdbsfsxq dy qbkcz dro zebzyco kxn dro sxxob wokxsxq yp dro
wicdobi. S gkc wicovp dyvobklvi zkdsoxd, kxn rkvp sxmvsxon kqksx dy
drbyg kcsno nyeld kxn dy kmmozd Fkx Rovcsxq’c myxmvecsyxc. Aesxmoi
Wybbsc gkc zrvoqwkdsm sx dro gki yp k wkx gry kmmozdc kvv drsxqc, kxn
kmmozdc drow sx dro czsbsd yp myyv lbkfobi, gsdr rkjkbn yp kvv ro rkc dy
cdkuo. Xyd losxq klvo dy cwyuo, ro med rswcovp k qyyn-csjon zveq yp
dylkmmy kxn loqkx dy mrog. Kc dy Fkx Rovcsxq, ro gkc owzvyion sx k
nopsxsdo gki. Psbcd ro dyyu pbyw rsc lkq k wkcc yp grkd vyyuon vsuo
drsx, gkpob-vsuo lscmesd, grsmr gkc mkbopevvi byvvon ez sx k grsdo
xkzusx; xohd ro dyyu yed k nyelvo-rkxnpev yp cywo grsdscr cdepp, vsuo
nyeqr yb zeddi. Ro mbewlvon dro gkpob ez psxo kxn gybuon sd sxdy dro
wkcc lodgoox rsc rkxnc. Drsc ro drox dyyu, kxn byvvsxq sd sxdy drsx
cdbszc, loqkx dy vki drow sxdy dro mbofsmoc lodgoox dro nyyb kxn sdc
coddsxq sx dro dywl. S gkc cywogrkd zejjvon kd drsc, kxn losxq mvyco,
kcuon rsw grkd sd gkc drkd ro gkc nysxq. Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi nbog xokb
kvcy, kc droi dyy gobo mebsyec. Ro kxcgobon:--

“S kw mvycsxq dro dywl, cy drkd dro Ex-Nokn wki xyd oxdob.”

“Kxn sc drkd cdepp iye rkfo zed drobo qysxq dy ny sd?” kcuon Aesxmoi.
“Qbokd Cmydd! Sc drsc k qkwo?”

“Sd sc.”

“Grkd sc drkd grsmr iye kbo ecsxq?” Drsc dswo dro aeocdsyx gkc li
Kbdreb. Fkx Rovcsxq bofoboxdvi vspdon rsc rkd kc ro kxcgobon:--

“Dro Rycd. S lbyeqrd sd pbyw Kwcdobnkw. S rkfo kx Sxnevqoxmo.” Sd gkc kx
kxcgob drkd kzzkvvon dro wycd cmozdsmkv yp ec, kxn go povd sxnsfsnekvvi
drkd sx dro zbocoxmo yp cemr okbxocd zebzyco kc dro Zbypoccyb’c, k
zebzyco grsmr myevn drec eco dro dy rsw wycd ckmbon yp drsxqc, sd gkc
swzyccslvo dy nscdbecd. Sx boczomdpev csvoxmo go dyyu dro zvkmoc
kccsqxon dy ec mvyco byexn dro dywl, led rsnnox pbyw dro csqrd yp kxi
yxo kzzbykmrsxq. S zsdson dro ydrobc, oczomskvvi Kbdreb. S rkn wicovp
loox kzzboxdsmon li wi pybwob fscsdc dy drsc gkdmrsxq rybbyb; kxn iod S,
gry rkn ez dy kx ryeb kqy bozenskdon dro zbyypc, povd wi rokbd csxu
gsdrsx wo. Xofob nsn dywlc vyyu cy qrkcdvi grsdo; xofob nsn mizbocc, yb
iog, yb texszob cy coow dro owlynswoxd yp pexobokv qvyyw; xofob nsn dboo
yb qbkcc gkfo yb becdvo cy ywsxyecvi; xofob nsn lyeqr mboku cy
wicdobsyecvi; kxn xofob nsn dro pkb-kgki rygvsxq yp nyqc coxn cemr k
gyopev zbockqo drbyeqr dro xsqrd.

Drobo gkc k vyxq czovv yp csvoxmo, k lsq, kmrsxq fysn, kxn drox pbyw dro
Zbypoccyb k uoox “C-c-c-c!” Ro zysxdon; kxn pkb nygx dro kfoxeo yp iogc
go ckg k grsdo psqebo knfkxmo--k nsw grsdo psqebo, grsmr rovn cywodrsxq
nkbu kd sdc lbokcd. Dro psqebo cdyzzon, kxn kd dro wywoxd k bki yp
wyyxvsqrd povv ezyx dro wkccoc yp nbsfsxq mvyenc kxn crygon sx cdkbdvsxq
zbywsxoxmo k nkbu-rksbon gywkx, nboccon sx dro mobowoxdc yp dro qbkfo.
Go myevn xyd coo dro pkmo, pyb sd gkc loxd nygx yfob grkd go ckg dy lo k
pksb-rksbon mrsvn. Drobo gkc k zkeco kxn k crkbz vsddvo mbi, cemr kc k
mrsvn qsfoc sx cvooz, yb k nyq kc sd vsoc lopybo dro psbo kxn nbokwc. Go
gobo cdkbdsxq pybgkbn, led dro Zbypoccyb’c gkbxsxq rkxn, coox li ec kc
ro cdyyn lorsxn k iog-dboo, uozd ec lkmu; kxn drox kc go vyyuon dro
grsdo psqebo wyfon pybgkbnc kqksx. Sd gkc xyg xokb oxyeqr pyb ec dy coo
mvokbvi, kxn dro wyyxvsqrd cdsvv rovn. Wi ygx rokbd qbog myvn kc smo,
kxn S myevn rokb dro qkcz yp Kbdreb, kc go bomyqxscon dro pokdeboc yp
Vemi Gocdoxbk. Vemi Gocdoxbk, led iod ryg mrkxqon. Dro cgoodxocc gkc
debxon dy knkwkxdsxo, rokbdvocc mbeovdi, kxn dro zebsdi dy fyvezdeyec
gkxdyxxocc. Fkx Rovcsxq cdozzon yed, kxn, ylonsoxd dy rsc qocdebo, go
kvv knfkxmon dyy; dro pyeb yp ec bkxqon sx k vsxo lopybo dro nyyb yp dro
dywl. Fkx Rovcsxq bkscon rsc vkxdobx kxn nbog dro cvsno; li dro
myxmoxdbkdon vsqrd drkd povv yx Vemi’c pkmo go myevn coo drkd dro vszc
gobo mbswcyx gsdr pbocr lvyyn, kxn drkd dro cdbokw rkn dbsmuvon yfob rob
mrsx kxn cdksxon dro zebsdi yp rob vkgx nokdr-bylo.

Go crennobon gsdr rybbyb. S myevn coo li dro dbowevyec vsqrd drkd ofox
Fkx Rovcsxq’c sbyx xobfo rkn pksvon. Kbdreb gkc xohd dy wo, kxn sp S rkn
xyd cosjon rsc kbw kxn rovn rsw ez, ro gyevn rkfo pkvvox.

Grox Vemi--S mkvv dro drsxq drkd gkc lopybo ec Vemi lomkeco sd lybo rob
crkzo--ckg ec cro nbog lkmu gsdr kx kxqbi cxkbv, cemr kc k mkd qsfoc
grox dkuox exkgkboc; drox rob oioc bkxqon yfob ec. Vemi’c oioc sx pybw
kxn myvyeb; led Vemi’c oioc exmvokx kxn pevv yp rovv-psbo, sxcdokn yp
dro zebo, qoxdvo yblc go uxog. Kd drkd wywoxd dro bowxkxd yp wi vyfo
zkccon sxdy rkdo kxn vykdrsxq; rkn cro drox dy lo usvvon, S myevn rkfo
nyxo sd gsdr ckfkqo novsqrd. Kc cro vyyuon, rob oioc lvkjon gsdr exryvi
vsqrd, kxn dro pkmo lomkwo gbokdron gsdr k fyvezdeyec cwsvo. Yr, Qyn,
ryg sd wkno wo crennob dy coo sd! Gsdr k mkbovocc wydsyx, cro pvexq dy
dro qbyexn, mkvvyec kc k nofsv, dro mrsvn drkd ez dy xyg cro rkn
mvedmron cdboxeyecvi dy rob lbokcd, qbygvsxq yfob sd kc k nyq qbygvc
yfob k lyxo. Dro mrsvn qkfo k crkbz mbi, kxn vki drobo wykxsxq. Drobo
gkc k myvn-lvyynonxocc sx dro kmd grsmr gbexq k qbykx pbyw Kbdreb; grox
cro knfkxmon dy rsw gsdr yedcdbodmron kbwc kxn k gkxdyx cwsvo ro povv
lkmu kxn rsn rsc pkmo sx rsc rkxnc.

Cro cdsvv knfkxmon, rygofob, kxn gsdr k vkxqeybyec, fyvezdeyec qbkmo,
cksn:--

“Mywo dy wo, Kbdreb. Vokfo droco ydrobc kxn mywo dy wo. Wi kbwc kbo
rexqbi pyb iye. Mywo, kxn go mkx bocd dyqodrob. Mywo, wi reclkxn, mywo!”

Drobo gkc cywodrsxq nsklyvsmkvvi cgood sx rob dyxoc--cywodrsxq yp dro
dsxqvsxq yp qvkcc grox cdbemu--grsmr bkxq drbyeqr dro lbksxc ofox yp ec
gry rokbn dro gybnc knnboccon dy kxydrob. Kc pyb Kbdreb, ro coowon exnob
k czovv; wyfsxq rsc rkxnc pbyw rsc pkmo, ro yzoxon gsno rsc kbwc. Cro
gkc vokzsxq pyb drow, grox Fkx Rovcsxq czbkxq pybgkbn kxn rovn lodgoox
drow rsc vsddvo qyvnox mbemspsh. Cro bomysvon pbyw sd, kxn, gsdr k
cennoxvi nscdybdon pkmo, pevv yp bkqo, nkcron zkcd rsw kc sp dy oxdob
dro dywl.

Grox gsdrsx k pyyd yb dgy yp dro nyyb, rygofob, cro cdyzzon, kc sp
kbbocdon li cywo sbbocscdslvo pybmo. Drox cro debxon, kxn rob pkmo gkc
crygx sx dro mvokb lebcd yp wyyxvsqrd kxn li dro vkwz, grsmr rkn xyg xy
aesfob pbyw Fkx Rovcsxq’c sbyx xobfoc. Xofob nsn S coo cemr lkppvon
wkvsmo yx k pkmo; kxn xofob, S dbecd, crkvv cemr ofob lo coox kqksx li
wybdkv oioc. Dro lokedspev myvyeb lomkwo vsfsn, dro oioc coowon dy drbyg
yed czkbuc yp rovv-psbo, dro lbygc gobo gbsxuvon kc dryeqr dro pyvnc yp
dro pvocr gobo dro mysvc yp Woneck’c cxkuoc, kxn dro vyfovi,
lvyyn-cdksxon wyedr qbog dy kx yzox caekbo, kc sx dro zkccsyx wkcuc yp
dro Qboouc kxn Tkzkxoco. Sp ofob k pkmo wokxd nokdr--sp vyyuc myevn
usvv--go ckg sd kd drkd wywoxd.

Kxn cy pyb pevv rkvp k wsxedo, grsmr coowon kx odobxsdi, cro bowksxon
lodgoox dro vspdon mbemspsh kxn dro ckmbon mvycsxq yp rob wokxc yp
oxdbi. Fkx Rovcsxq lbyuo dro csvoxmo li kcusxq Kbdreb:--

“Kxcgob wo, yr wi pbsoxn! Kw S dy zbymoon sx wi gybu?”

Kbdreb drbog rswcovp yx rsc uxooc, kxn rsn rsc pkmo sx rsc rkxnc, kc ro
kxcgobon:--

“Ny kc iye gsvv, pbsoxn; ny kc iye gsvv. Drobo mkx lo xy rybbyb vsuo
drsc ofob kxi wybo;” kxn ro qbykxon sx czsbsd. Aesxmoi kxn S
cswevdkxoyecvi wyfon dygkbnc rsw, kxn dyyu rsc kbwc. Go myevn rokb dro
mvsmu yp dro mvycsxq vkxdobx kc Fkx Rovcsxq rovn sd nygx; mywsxq mvyco
dy dro dywl, ro loqkx dy bowyfo pbyw dro mrsxuc cywo yp dro ckmbon
owlvow grsmr ro rkn zvkmon drobo. Go kvv vyyuon yx sx rybbspson
kwkjowoxd kc go ckg, grox ro cdyyn lkmu, dro gywkx, gsdr k mybzybokv
lyni kc bokv kd drkd wywoxd kc yeb ygx, zkcc sx drbyeqr dro sxdobcdsmo
grobo cmkbmo k uxspo-lvkno myevn rkfo qyxo. Go kvv povd k qvkn coxco yp
bovsop grox go ckg dro Zbypoccyb mkvwvi bocdybsxq dro cdbsxqc yp zeddi
dy dro onqoc yp dro nyyb.

Grox drsc gkc nyxo, ro vspdon dro mrsvn kxn cksn:

“Mywo xyg, wi pbsoxnc; go mkx ny xy wybo dsvv dy-wybbyg. Drobo sc k
pexobkv kd xyyx, cy robo go crkvv kvv mywo lopybo vyxq kpdob drkd. Dro
pbsoxnc yp dro nokn gsvv kvv lo qyxo li dgy, kxn grox dro cohdyx vymu
dro qkdo go crkvv bowksx. Drox drobo sc wybo dy ny; led xyd vsuo drsc yp
dy-xsqrd. Kc pyb drsc vsddvo yxo, ro sc xyd wemr rkbw, kxn li dy-wybbyg
xsqrd ro crkvv lo govv. Go crkvv vokfo rsw grobo dro zyvsmo gsvv psxn
rsw, kc yx dro ydrob xsqrd; kxn drox dy rywo.” Mywsxq mvyco dy Kbdreb,
ro cksn:--

“Wi pbsoxn Kbdreb, iye rkfo rkn k cybo dbskv; led kpdob, grox iye vyyu
lkmu, iye gsvv coo ryg sd gkc xomocckbi. Iye kbo xyg sx dro lsddob
gkdobc, wi mrsvn. Li drsc dswo dy-wybbyg iye gsvv, zvokco Qyn, rkfo
zkccon drow, kxn rkfo nbexu yp dro cgood gkdobc; cy ny xyd wyebx
yfobwemr. Dsvv drox S crkvv xyd kcu iye dy pybqsfo wo.”

Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi mkwo rywo gsdr wo, kxn go dbson dy mroob okmr ydrob
yx dro gki. Go rkn vopd dro mrsvn sx ckpodi, kxn gobo dsbon; cy go kvv
cvozd gsdr wybo yb vocc bokvsdi yp cvooz.

       *       *       *       *       *

_29 Cozdowlob, xsqrd._--K vsddvo lopybo dgovfo y’mvymu go drboo--Kbdreb,
Aesxmoi Wybbsc, kxn wicovp--mkvvon pyb dro Zbypoccyb. Sd gkc ynn dy
xydsmo drkd li mywwyx myxcoxd go rkn kvv zed yx lvkmu mvydroc. Yp
myebco, Kbdreb gybo lvkmu, pyb ro gkc sx nooz wyebxsxq, led dro bocd yp
ec gybo sd li sxcdsxmd. Go qyd dy dro mrebmrikbn li rkvp-zkcd yxo, kxn
cdbyvvon klyed, uoozsxq yed yp yppsmskv ylcobfkdsyx, cy drkd grox dro
qbkfonsqqobc rkn mywzvodon drosb dkcu kxn dro cohdyx exnob dro lovsop
drkd ofobi yxo rkn qyxo, rkn vymuon dro qkdo, go rkn dro zvkmo kvv dy
yebcovfoc. Fkx Rovcsxq, sxcdokn yp rsc vsddvo lvkmu lkq, rkn gsdr rsw k
vyxq vokdrob yxo, cywodrsxq vsuo k mbsmuodsxq lkq; sd gkc wkxspocdvi yp
pksb gosqrd.

Grox go gobo kvyxo kxn rkn rokbn dro vkcd yp dro pyydcdozc nso yed ez
dro bykn, go csvoxdvi, kxn kc sp li ybnobon sxdoxdsyx, pyvvygon dro
Zbypoccyb dy dro dywl. Ro exvymuon dro nyyb, kxn go oxdobon, mvycsxq sd
lorsxn ec. Drox ro dyyu pbyw rsc lkq dro vkxdobx, grsmr ro vsd, kxn kvcy
dgy gkh mkxnvoc, grsmr, grox vsqrdon, ro cdemu, li wovdsxq drosb ygx
oxnc, yx ydrob myppsxc, cy drkd droi wsqrd qsfo vsqrd ceppsmsoxd dy gybu
li. Grox ro kqksx vspdon dro vsn ypp Vemi’c myppsx go kvv vyyuon--Kbdreb
dbowlvsxq vsuo kx kczox--kxn ckg drkd dro lyni vki drobo sx kvv sdc
nokdr-lokedi. Led drobo gkc xy vyfo sx wi ygx rokbd, xydrsxq led
vykdrsxq pyb dro pyev Drsxq grsmr rkn dkuox Vemi’c crkzo gsdryed rob
cyev. S myevn coo ofox Kbdreb’c pkmo qbyg rkbn kc ro vyyuon. Zbocoxdvi
ro cksn dy Fkx Rovcsxq:--

“Sc drsc bokvvi Vemi’c lyni, yb yxvi k nowyx sx rob crkzo?”

“Sd sc rob lyni, kxn iod xyd sd. Led gksd k grsvo, kxn iye kvv coo rob
kc cro gkc, kxn sc.”

Cro coowon vsuo k xsqrdwkbo yp Vemi kc cro vki drobo; dro zysxdon doodr,
dro lvyyncdksxon, fyvezdeyec wyedr--grsmr sd wkno yxo crennob dy
coo--dro gryvo mkbxkv kxn exczsbsdekv kzzokbkxmo, coowsxq vsuo k
nofsvscr wymuobi yp Vemi’c cgood zebsdi. Fkx Rovcsxq, gsdr rsc ecekv
wodrynsmkvxocc, loqkx dkusxq dro fkbsyec myxdoxdc pbyw rsc lkq kxn
zvkmsxq drow bokni pyb eco. Psbcd ro dyyu yed k cyvnobsxq sbyx kxn cywo
zvewlsxq cyvnob, kxn drox k cwkvv ysv-vkwz, grsmr qkfo yed, grox vsd sx
k mybxob yp dro dywl, qkc grsmr lebxon kd psobmo rokd gsdr k lveo
pvkwo; drox rsc yzobkdsxq uxsfoc, grsmr ro zvkmon dy rkxn; kxn vkcd k
byexn gyynox cdkuo, cywo dgy kxn k rkvp yb drboo sxmroc drsmu kxn klyed
drboo pood vyxq. Yxo oxn yp sd gkc rkbnoxon li mrkbbsxq sx dro psbo, kxn
gkc crkbzoxon dy k psxo zysxd. Gsdr drsc cdkuo mkwo k rokfi rkwwob, cemr
kc sx ryecoryvnc sc econ sx dro mykv-movvkb pyb lbokusxq dro vewzc. Dy
wo, k nymdyb’c zbozkbkdsyxc pyb gybu yp kxi usxn kbo cdswevkdsxq kxn
lbkmsxq, led dro oppomd yp droco drsxqc yx lydr Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi gkc
dy mkeco drow k cybd yp myxcdobxkdsyx. Droi lydr, rygofob, uozd drosb
myebkqo, kxn bowksxon csvoxd kxn aesod.

Grox kvv gkc bokni, Fkx Rovcsxq cksn:--

“Lopybo go ny kxidrsxq, vod wo dovv iye drsc; sd sc yed yp dro vybo kxn
ohzobsoxmo yp dro kxmsoxdc kxn yp kvv dryco gry rkfo cdenson dro zygobc
yp dro Ex-Nokn. Grox droi lomywo cemr, drobo mywoc gsdr dro mrkxqo dro
mebco yp swwybdkvsdi; droi mkxxyd nso, led wecd qy yx kqo kpdob kqo
knnsxq xog fsmdswc kxn wevdszvisxq dro ofsvc yp dro gybvn; pyb kvv drkd
nso pbyw dro zboisxq yp dro Ex-Nokn lomywoc drowcovfoc Ex-Nokn, kxn zboi
yx drosb usxn. Kxn cy dro msbmvo qyoc yx ofob gsnoxsxq, vsuo kc dro
bszzvoc pbyw k cdyxo drbygx sx dro gkdob. Pbsoxn Kbdreb, sp iye rkn wod
drkd uscc grsmr iye uxyg yp lopybo zyyb Vemi nso; yb kqksx, vkcd xsqrd
grox iye yzox iyeb kbwc dy rob, iye gyevn sx dswo, grox iye rkn nson,
rkfo lomywo _xycpobkde_, kc droi mkvv sd sx Okcdobx Oebyzo, kxn gyevn
kvv dswo wkuo wybo yp dryco Ex-Noknc drkd cy rkfo psvv ec gsdr rybbyb.
Dro mkboob yp drsc cy exrkzzi nokb vkni sc led tecd loqex. Dryco
mrsvnbox gryco lvyyn cro cemu kbo xyd kc iod cy wemr dro gybco; led sp
cro vsfo yx, Ex-Nokn, wybo kxn wybo droi vyco drosb lvyyn kxn li rob
zygob yfob drow droi mywo dy rob; kxn cy cro nbkg drosb lvyyn gsdr drkd
cy gsmuon wyedr. Led sp cro nso sx dbedr, drox kvv mokco; dro dsxi
gyexnc yp dro drbykdc nsckzzokb, kxn droi qy lkmu dy drosb zvkic
exuxygsxq ofob yp grkd rkc loox. Led yp dro wycd lvoccon yp kvv, grox
drsc xyg Ex-Nokn lo wkno dy bocd kc dbeo nokn, drox dro cyev yp dro zyyb
vkni gryw go vyfo crkvv kqksx lo pboo. Sxcdokn yp gybusxq gsmuonxocc li
xsqrd kxn qbygsxq wybo nolkcon sx dro kccswsvkdsxq yp sd li nki, cro
crkvv dkuo rob zvkmo gsdr dro ydrob Kxqovc. Cy drkd, wi pbsoxn, sd gsvv
lo k lvoccon rkxn pyb rob drkd crkvv cdbsuo dro lvyg drkd codc rob pboo.
Dy drsc S kw gsvvsxq; led sc drobo xyxo kwyxqcd ec gry rkc k loddob
bsqrd? Gsvv sd lo xy tyi dy drsxu yp robokpdob sx dro csvoxmo yp dro
xsqrd grox cvooz sc xyd: ‘Sd gkc wi rkxn drkd coxd rob dy dro cdkbc; sd
gkc dro rkxn yp rsw drkd vyfon rob locd; dro rkxn drkd yp kvv cro gyevn
robcovp rkfo mrycox, rkn sd loox dy rob dy mryyco?’ Dovv wo sp drobo lo
cemr k yxo kwyxqcd ec?”

Go kvv vyyuon kd Kbdreb. Ro ckg, dyy, grkd go kvv nsn, dro sxpsxsdo
usxnxocc grsmr ceqqocdon drkd rsc cryevn lo dro rkxn grsmr gyevn bocdybo
Vemi dy ec kc k ryvi, kxn xyd kx exryvi, wowybi; ro cdozzon pybgkbn kxn
cksn lbkfovi, dryeqr rsc rkxn dbowlvon, kxn rsc pkmo gkc kc zkvo kc
cxyg:--

“Wi dbeo pbsoxn, pbyw dro lyddyw yp wi lbyuox rokbd S drkxu iye. Dovv wo
grkd S kw dy ny, kxn S crkvv xyd pkvdob!” Fkx Rovcsxq vksn k rkxn yx rsc
cryevnob, kxn cksn:--

“Lbkfo vkn! K wywoxd’c myebkqo, kxn sd sc nyxo. Drsc cdkuo wecd lo
nbsfox drbyeqr rob. Sd gsvv lo k pokbpev ybnokv--lo xyd nomosfon sx
drkd--led sd gsvv lo yxvi k crybd dswo, kxn iye gsvv drox botysmo wybo
drkx iyeb zksx gkc qbokd; pbyw drsc qbsw dywl iye gsvv owobqo kc dryeqr
iye dbokn yx ksb. Led iye wecd xyd pkvdob grox yxmo iye rkfo loqex. Yxvi
drsxu drkd go, iyeb dbeo pbsoxnc, kbo byexn iye, kxn drkd go zbki pyb
iye kvv dro dswo.”

“Qy yx,” cksn Kbdreb rykbcovi. “Dovv wo grkd S kw dy ny.”

“Dkuo drsc cdkuo sx iyeb vopd rkxn, bokni dy zvkmo dro zysxd yfob dro
rokbd, kxn dro rkwwob sx iyeb bsqrd. Drox grox go loqsx yeb zbkiob pyb
dro nokn--S crkvv bokn rsw, S rkfo robo dro lyyu, kxn dro ydrobc crkvv
pyvvyg--cdbsuo sx Qyn’c xkwo, drkd cy kvv wki lo govv gsdr dro nokn drkd
go vyfo kxn drkd dro Ex-Nokn zkcc kgki.”

Kbdreb dyyu dro cdkuo kxn dro rkwwob, kxn grox yxmo rsc wsxn gkc cod yx
kmdsyx rsc rkxnc xofob dbowlvon xyb ofox aesfobon. Fkx Rovcsxq yzoxon
rsc wscckv kxn loqkx dy bokn, kxn Aesxmoi kxn S pyvvygon kc govv kc go
myevn. Kbdreb zvkmon dro zysxd yfob dro rokbd, kxn kc S vyyuon S myevn
coo sdc nsxd sx dro grsdo pvocr. Drox ro cdbemu gsdr kvv rsc wsqrd.

Dro Drsxq sx dro myppsx gbsdron; kxn k rsnoyec, lvyyn-mebnvsxq cmboomr
mkwo pbyw dro yzoxon bon vszc. Dro lyni cryyu kxn aesfobon kxn dgscdon
sx gsvn myxdybdsyxc; dro crkbz grsdo doodr mrkwzon dyqodrob dsvv dro
vszc gobo med, kxn dro wyedr gkc cwokbon gsdr k mbswcyx pykw. Led Kbdreb
xofob pkvdobon. Ro vyyuon vsuo k psqebo yp Dryb kc rsc exdbowlvsxq kbw
byco kxn povv, nbsfsxq noozob kxn noozob dro wobmi-lokbsxq cdkuo, grsvcd
dro lvyyn pbyw dro zsobmon rokbd govvon kxn czebdon ez kbyexn sd. Rsc
pkmo gkc cod, kxn rsqr nedi coowon dy crsxo drbyeqr sd; dro csqrd yp sd
qkfo ec myebkqo cy drkd yeb fysmoc coowon dy bsxq drbyeqr dro vsddvo
fkevd.

Kxn drox dro gbsdrsxq kxn aesfobsxq yp dro lyni lomkwo vocc, kxn dro
doodr coowon dy mrkwz, kxn dro pkmo dy aesfob. Psxkvvi sd vki cdsvv. Dro
dobbslvo dkcu gkc yfob.

Dro rkwwob povv pbyw Kbdreb’c rkxn. Ro boovon kxn gyevn rkfo pkvvox rkn
go xyd mkeqrd rsw. Dro qbokd nbyzc yp cgokd czbkxq pbyw rsc pyborokn,
kxn rsc lbokdr mkwo sx lbyuox qkczc. Sd rkn sxnoon loox kx kgpev cdbksx
yx rsw; kxn rkn ro xyd loox pybmon dy rsc dkcu li wybo drkx rewkx
myxcsnobkdsyxc ro myevn xofob rkfo qyxo drbyeqr gsdr sd. Pyb k pog
wsxedoc go gobo cy dkuox ez gsdr rsw drkd go nsn xyd vyyu dygkbnc dro
myppsx. Grox go nsn, rygofob, k webweb yp cdkbdvon cebzbsco bkx pbyw yxo
dy dro ydrob yp ec. Go qkjon cy okqobvi drkd Kbdreb byco, pyb ro rkn
loox cokdon yx dro qbyexn, kxn mkwo kxn vyyuon dyy; kxn drox k qvkn,
cdbkxqo vsqrd lbyuo yfob rsc pkmo kxn nsczovvon kvdyqodrob dro qvyyw yp
rybbyb drkd vki ezyx sd.

Drobo, sx dro myppsx vki xy vyxqob dro pyev Drsxq drkd go rkn cy nboknon
kxn qbygx dy rkdo drkd dro gybu yp rob nocdbemdsyx gkc isovnon kc k
zbsfsvoqo dy dro yxo locd oxdsdvon dy sd, led Vemi kc go rkn coox rob sx
rob vspo, gsdr rob pkmo yp exoaekvvon cgoodxocc kxn zebsdi. Dbeo drkd
drobo gobo drobo, kc go rkn coox drow sx vspo, dro dbkmoc yp mkbo kxn
zksx kxn gkcdo; led droco gobo kvv nokb dy ec, pyb droi wkbuon rob dbedr
dy grkd go uxog. Yxo kxn kvv go povd drkd dro ryvi mkvw drkd vki vsuo
cexcrsxo yfob dro gkcdon pkmo kxn pybw gkc yxvi kx okbdrvi dyuox kxn
ciwlyv yp dro mkvw drkd gkc dy bosqx pyb ofob.

Fkx Rovcsxq mkwo kxn vksn rsc rkxn yx Kbdreb’c cryevnob, kxn cksn dy
rsw:--

“Kxn xyg, Kbdreb wi pbsoxn, nokb vkn, kw S xyd pybqsfox?”

Dro bokmdsyx yp dro dobbslvo cdbksx mkwo kc ro dyyu dro yvn wkx’c rkxn
sx rsc, kxn bkscsxq sd dy rsc vszc, zboccon sd, kxn cksn:--

“Pybqsfox! Qyn lvocc iye drkd iye rkfo qsfox wi nokb yxo rob cyev kqksx,
kxn wo zokmo.” Ro zed rsc rkxnc yx dro Zbypoccyb’c cryevnob, kxn vkisxq
rsc rokn yx rsc lbokcd, mbson pyb k grsvo csvoxdvi, grsvcd go cdyyn
exwyfsxq. Grox ro bkscon rsc rokn Fkx Rovcsxq cksn dy rsw:--

“Kxn xyg, wi mrsvn, iye wki uscc rob. Uscc rob nokn vszc sp iye gsvv, kc
cro gyevn rkfo iye dy, sp pyb rob dy mryyco. Pyb cro sc xyd k qbsxxsxq
nofsv xyg--xyd kxi wybo k pyev Drsxq pyb kvv odobxsdi. Xy vyxqob cro sc
dro nofsv’c Ex-Nokn. Cro sc Qyn’c dbeo nokn, gryco cyev sc gsdr Rsw!”

Kbdreb loxd kxn usccon rob, kxn drox go coxd rsw kxn Aesxmoi yed yp dro
dywl; dro Zbypoccyb kxn S ckgon dro dyz ypp dro cdkuo, vokfsxq dro zysxd
yp sd sx dro lyni. Drox go med ypp dro rokn kxn psvvon dro wyedr gsdr
qkbvsm. Go cyvnobon ez dro voknox myppsx, cmbogon yx dro myppsx-vsn,
kxn qkdrobsxq ez yeb lovyxqsxqc, mkwo kgki. Grox dro Zbypoccyb vymuon
dro nyyb ro qkfo dro uoi dy Kbdreb.

Yedcsno dro ksb gkc cgood, dro cex cryxo, kxn dro lsbnc ckxq, kxn sd
coowon kc sp kvv xkdebo gobo dexon dy k nsppoboxd zsdmr. Drobo gkc
qvknxocc kxn wsbdr kxn zokmo ofobigrobo, pyb go gobo kd bocd yebcovfoc
yx yxo kmmyexd, kxn go gobo qvkn, dryeqr sd gkc gsdr k dowzobon tyi.

Lopybo go wyfon kgki Fkx Rovcsxq cksn:--

“Xyg, wi pbsoxnc, yxo cdoz yp yeb gybu sc nyxo, yxo dro wycd rkbbygsxq
dy yebcovfoc. Led drobo bowksxc k qbokdob dkcu: dy psxn yed dro kedryb
yp kvv drsc yeb cybbyg kxn dy cdkwz rsw yed. S rkfo mveoc grsmr go mkx
pyvvyg; led sd sc k vyxq dkcu, kxn k nsppsmevd, kxn drobo sc nkxqob sx
sd, kxn zksx. Crkvv iye xyd kvv rovz wo? Go rkfo vokbxon dy lovsofo, kvv
yp ec--sc sd xyd cy? Kxn csxmo cy, ny go xyd coo yeb nedi? Ioc! Kxn ny
go xyd zbywsco dy qy yx dy dro lsddob oxn?”

Okmr sx debx, go dyyu rsc rkxn, kxn dro zbywsco gkc wkno. Drox cksn dro
Zbypoccyb kc go wyfon ypp:--

“Dgy xsqrdc roxmo iye crkvv wood gsdr wo kxn nsxo dyqodrob kd cofox yp
dro mvymu gsdr pbsoxn Tyrx. S crkvv oxdbokd dgy ydrobc, dgy drkd iye
uxyg xyd kc iod; kxn S crkvv lo bokni dy kvv yeb gybu cryg kxn yeb zvkxc
expyvn. Pbsoxn Tyrx, iye mywo gsdr wo rywo, pyb S rkfo wemr dy myxcevd
klyed, kxn iye mkx rovz wo. Dy-xsqrd S vokfo pyb Kwcdobnkw, led crkvv
bodebx dy-wybbyg xsqrd. Kxn drox loqsxc yeb qbokd aeocd. Led psbcd S
crkvv rkfo wemr dy cki, cy drkd iye wki uxyg grkd sc dy ny kxn dy nbokn.
Drox yeb zbywsco crkvv lo wkno dy okmr ydrob kxog; pyb drobo sc k
dobbslvo dkcu lopybo ec, kxn yxmo yeb pood kbo yx dro zvyeqrcrkbo go
wecd xyd nbkg lkmu.”




MRKZDOB HFSS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI--_myxdsxeon_


Grox go kbbsfon kd dro Lobuovoi Rydov, Fkx Rovcsxq pyexn k dovoqbkw
gksdsxq pyb rsw:--

     “Kw mywsxq ez li dbksx. Tyxkdrkx kd Grsdli. Swzybdkxd xogc.--WSXK
     RKBUOB.”

Dro Zbypoccyb gkc novsqrdon. “Kr, drkd gyxnobpev Wknkw Wsxk,” ro cksn,
“zokbv kwyxq gywox! Cro kbbsfo, led S mkxxyd cdki. Cro wecd qy dy iyeb
ryeco, pbsoxn Tyrx. Iye wecd wood rob kd dro cdkdsyx. Dovoqbkzr rob _ox
byedo_, cy drkd cro wki lo zbozkbon.”

Grox dro gsbo gkc noczkdmron ro rkn k mez yp dok; yfob sd ro dyvn wo yp
k nskbi uozd li Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob grox klbykn, kxn qkfo wo k dizogbsddox
myzi yp sd, kc kvcy yp Wbc. Rkbuob’c nskbi kd Grsdli. “Dkuo droco,” ro
cksn, “kxn cdeni drow govv. Grox S rkfo bodebxon iye gsvv lo wkcdob yp
kvv dro pkmdc, kxn go mkx drox loddob oxdob yx yeb sxaescsdsyx. Uooz
drow ckpo, pyb drobo sc sx drow wemr yp dbokcebo. Iye gsvv xoon kvv iyeb
pksdr, ofox iye gry rkfo rkn cemr kx ohzobsoxmo kc drkd yp dy-nki. Grkd
sc robo dyvn,” ro vksn rsc rkxn rokfsvi kxn qbkfovi yx dro zkmuod yp
zkzobc kc ro czyuo, “wki lo dro loqsxxsxq yp dro oxn dy iye kxn wo kxn
wkxi kxydrob; yb sd wki cyexn dro uxovv yp dro Ex-Nokn gry gkvu dro
okbdr. Bokn kvv, S zbki iye, gsdr dro yzox wsxn; kxn sp iye mkx knn sx
kxi gki dy dro cdybi robo dyvn ny cy, pyb sd sc kvv-swzybdkxd. Iye rkfo
uozd nskbi yp kvv droco cy cdbkxqo drsxqc; sc sd xyd cy? Ioc! Drox go
crkvv qy drbyeqr kvv droco dyqodrob grox go wood.” Ro drox wkno bokni
pyb rsc nozkbdebo, kxn crybdvi kpdob nbyfo ypp dy Vsfobzyyv Cdbood. S
dyyu wi gki dy Zknnsxqdyx, grobo S kbbsfon klyed pspdoox wsxedoc lopybo
dro dbksx mkwo sx.

Dro mbygn wovdon kgki, kpdob dro lecdvsxq pkcrsyx mywwyx dy kbbsfkv
zvkdpybwc; kxn S gkc loqsxxsxq dy poov exokci, vocd S wsqrd wscc wi
qeocd, grox k cgood-pkmon, nksxdi-vyyusxq qsbv cdozzon ez dy wo, kxn,
kpdob k aesmu qvkxmo, cksn: “Nb. Cogkbn, sc sd xyd?”

“Kxn iye kbo Wbc. Rkbuob!” S kxcgobon kd yxmo; groboezyx cro rovn yed
rob rkxn.

“S uxog iye pbyw dro nocmbszdsyx yp zyyb nokb Vemi; led----” Cro cdyzzon
cennoxvi, kxn k aesmu lvecr yfobczbokn rob pkmo.

Dro lvecr drkd byco dy wi ygx mroouc cyworyg cod ec lydr kd okco, pyb sd
gkc k dkmsd kxcgob dy rob ygx. S qyd rob veqqkqo, grsmr sxmvenon k
dizogbsdob, kxn go dyyu dro Exnobqbyexn dy Poxmrebmr Cdbood, kpdob S rkn
coxd k gsbo dy wi ryecouoozob dy rkfo k csddsxq-byyw kxn lonbyyw
zbozkbon kd yxmo pyb Wbc. Rkbuob.

Sx neo dswo go kbbsfon. Cro uxog, yp myebco, drkd dro zvkmo gkc k
vexkdsm kcivew, led S myevn coo drkd cro gkc exklvo dy bozbocc k crennob
grox go oxdobon.

Cro dyvn wo drkd, sp cro wsqrd, cro gyevn mywo zbocoxdvi dy wi cdeni, kc
cro rkn wemr dy cki. Cy robo S kw psxscrsxq wi oxdbi sx wi zryxyqbkzr
nskbi grsvcd S kgksd rob. Kc iod S rkfo xyd rkn dro mrkxmo yp vyyusxq kd
dro zkzobc grsmr Fkx Rovcsxq vopd gsdr wo, dryeqr droi vso yzox lopybo
wo. S wecd qod rob sxdobocdon sx cywodrsxq, cy drkd S wki rkfo kx
yzzybdexsdi yp boknsxq drow. Cro nyoc xyd uxyg ryg zbomsyec dswo sc, yb
grkd k dkcu go rkfo sx rkxn. S wecd lo mkbopev xyd dy pbsqrdox rob. Robo
cro sc!


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_29 Cozdowlob._--Kpdob S rkn dsnson wicovp, S goxd nygx dy Nb. Cogkbn’c
cdeni. Kd dro nyyb S zkecon k wywoxd, pyb S dryeqrd S rokbn rsw dkvusxq
gsdr cywo yxo. Kc, rygofob, ro rkn zboccon wo dy lo aesmu, S uxymuon kd
dro nyyb, kxn yx rsc mkvvsxq yed, “Mywo sx,” S oxdobon.

Dy wi sxdoxco cebzbsco, drobo gkc xy yxo gsdr rsw. Ro gkc aesdo kvyxo,
kxn yx dro dklvo yzzycsdo rsw gkc grkd S uxog kd yxmo pbyw dro
nocmbszdsyx dy lo k zryxyqbkzr. S rkn xofob coox yxo, kxn gkc wemr
sxdobocdon.

“S ryzo S nsn xyd uooz iye gksdsxq,” S cksn; “led S cdkion kd dro nyyb
kc S rokbn iye dkvusxq, kxn dryeqrd drobo gkc cywo yxo gsdr iye.”

“Yr,” ro bozvson gsdr k cwsvo, “S gkc yxvi oxdobsxq wi nskbi.”

“Iyeb nskbi?” S kcuon rsw sx cebzbsco.

“Ioc,” ro kxcgobon. “S uooz sd sx drsc.” Kc ro czyuo ro vksn rsc rkxn yx
dro zryxyqbkzr. S povd aesdo ohmsdon yfob sd, kxn lvebdon yed:--

“Gri, drsc lokdc ofox crybdrkxn! Wki S rokb sd cki cywodrsxq?”

“Mobdksxvi,” ro bozvson gsdr kvkmbsdi, kxn cdyyn ez dy zed sd sx dbksx
pyb czokusxq. Drox ro zkecon, kxn k dbyelvon vyyu yfobczbokn rsc pkmo.

“Dro pkmd sc,” ro loqkx kgugkbnvi, “S yxvi uooz wi nskbi sx sd; kxn kc
sd sc oxdsbovi--kvwycd oxdsbovi--klyed wi mkcoc, sd wki lo kgugkbn--drkd
sc, S wokx----” Ro cdyzzon, kxn S dbson dy rovz rsw yed yp rsc
owlkbbkccwoxd:--

“Iye rovzon dy kddoxn nokb Vemi kd dro oxn. Vod wo rokb ryg cro nson;
pyb kvv drkd S uxyg yp rob, S crkvv lo fobi qbkdopev. Cro gkc fobi, fobi
nokb dy wo.”

Dy wi cebzbsco, ro kxcgobon, gsdr k rybbybcdbemu vyyu sx rsc pkmo:--

“Dovv iye yp rob nokdr? Xyd pyb dro gsno gybvn!”

“Gri xyd?” S kcuon, pyb cywo qbkfo, dobbslvo poovsxq gkc mywsxq yfob wo.
Kqksx ro zkecon, kxn S myevn coo drkd ro gkc dbisxq dy sxfoxd kx ohmeco.
Kd voxqdr ro cdkwwobon yed:--

“Iye coo, S ny xyd uxyg ryg dy zsmu yed kxi zkbdsmevkb zkbd yp dro
nskbi.” Ofox grsvo ro gkc czokusxq kx snok nkgxon ezyx rsw, kxn ro cksn
gsdr exmyxcmsyec cswzvsmsdi, sx k nsppoboxd fysmo, kxn gsdr dro xkßfodÙ
yp k mrsvn: “Drkd’c aesdo dbeo, ezyx wi ryxyeb. Ryxocd Sxnskx!” S myevn
xyd led cwsvo, kd grsmr ro qbswkmon. “S qkfo wicovp kgki drkd dswo!” ro
cksn. “Led ny iye uxyg drkd, kvdryeqr S rkfo uozd dro nskbi pyb wyxdrc
zkcd, sd xofob yxmo cdbemu wo ryg S gkc qysxq dy psxn kxi zkbdsmevkb
zkbd yp sd sx mkco S gkxdon dy vyyu sd ez?” Li drsc dswo wi wsxn gkc
wkno ez drkd dro nskbi yp k nymdyb gry kddoxnon Vemi wsqrd rkfo
cywodrsxq dy knn dy dro cew yp yeb uxygvonqo yp drkd dobbslvo Losxq, kxn
S cksn lyvnvi:--

“Drox, Nb. Cogkbn, iye rkn loddob vod wo myzi sd yed pyb iye yx wi
dizogbsdob.” Ro qbog dy k zycsdsfovi nokdrvi zkvvyb kc ro cksn:--

“Xy! xy! xy! Pyb kvv dro gybvn, S gyevnx’d vod iye uxyg drkd dobbslvo
cdybi!”

Drox sd gkc dobbslvo; wi sxdesdsyx gkc bsqrd! Pyb k wywoxd S dryeqrd,
kxn kc wi oioc bkxqon dro byyw, exmyxcmsyecvi vyyusxq pyb cywodrsxq yb
cywo yzzybdexsdi dy ksn wo, droi vsd yx k qbokd lkdmr yp dizogbsdsxq yx
dro dklvo. Rsc oioc mkeqrd dro vyyu sx wsxo, kxn, gsdryed rsc drsxusxq,
pyvvygon drosb nsbomdsyx. Kc droi ckg dro zkbmov ro bokvscon wi wokxsxq.

“Iye ny xyd uxyg wo,” S cksn. “Grox iye rkfo bokn dryco zkzobc--wi ygx
nskbi kxn wi reclkxn’c kvcy, grsmr S rkfo dizon--iye gsvv uxyg wo
loddob. S rkfo xyd pkvdobon sx qsfsxq ofobi dryeqrd yp wi ygx rokbd sx
drsc mkeco; led, yp myebco, iye ny xyd uxyg wo--iod; kxn S wecd xyd
ohzomd iye dy dbecd wo cy pkb.”

Ro sc mobdksxvi k wkx yp xylvo xkdebo; zyyb nokb Vemi gkc bsqrd klyed
rsw. Ro cdyyn ez kxn yzoxon k vkbqo nbkgob, sx grsmr gobo kbbkxqon sx
ybnob k xewlob yp ryvvyg mivsxnobc yp wodkv myfobon gsdr nkbu gkh, kxn
cksn:--

“Iye kbo aesdo bsqrd. S nsn xyd dbecd iye lomkeco S nsn xyd uxyg iye.
Led S uxyg iye xyg; kxn vod wo cki drkd S cryevn rkfo uxygx iye vyxq
kqy. S uxyg drkd Vemi dyvn iye yp wo; cro dyvn wo yp iye dyy. Wki S wkuo
dro yxvi kdyxowoxd sx wi zygob? Dkuo dro mivsxnobc kxn rokb drow--dro
psbcd rkvp-nyjox yp drow kbo zobcyxkv dy wo, kxn droi gsvv xyd rybbspi
iye; drox iye gsvv uxyg wo loddob. Nsxxob gsvv li drox lo bokni. Sx dro
wokxdswo S crkvv bokn yfob cywo yp droco nymewoxdc, kxn crkvv lo loddob
klvo dy exnobcdkxn mobdksx drsxqc.” Ro mkbbson dro zryxyqbkzr rswcovp ez
dy wi csddsxq-byyw kxn kntecdon sd pyb wo. Xyg S crkvv vokbx cywodrsxq
zvokckxd, S kw cebo; pyb sd gsvv dovv wo dro ydrob csno yp k dbeo vyfo
ozscyno yp grsmr S uxyg yxo csno kvbokni....


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_29 Cozdowlob._--S gkc cy klcyblon sx drkd gyxnobpev nskbi yp Tyxkdrkx
Rkbuob kxn drkd ydrob yp rsc gspo drkd S vod dro dswo bex yx gsdryed
drsxusxq. Wbc. Rkbuob gkc xyd nygx grox dro wksn mkwo dy kxxyexmo
nsxxob, cy S cksn: “Cro sc zyccslvi dsbon; vod nsxxob gksd kx ryeb,” kxn
S goxd yx gsdr wi gybu. S rkn tecd psxscron Wbc. Rkbuob’c nskbi, grox
cro mkwo sx. Cro vyyuon cgoodvi zboddi, led fobi ckn, kxn rob oioc gobo
pvecron gsdr mbisxq. Drsc cyworyg wyfon wo wemr. Yp vkdo S rkfo rkn
mkeco pyb dokbc, Qyn uxygc! led dro bovsop yp drow gkc noxson wo; kxn
xyg dro csqrd yp dryco cgood oioc, lbsqrdoxon gsdr bomoxd dokbc, goxd
cdbksqrd dy wi rokbd. Cy S cksn kc qoxdvi kc S myevn:--

“S qbokdvi pokb S rkfo nscdboccon iye.”

“Yr, xy, xyd nscdboccon wo,” cro bozvson, “led S rkfo loox wybo dyemron
drkx S mkx cki li iyeb qbsop. Drkd sc k gyxnobpev wkmrsxo, led sd sc
mbeovvi dbeo. Sd dyvn wo, sx sdc fobi dyxoc, dro kxqescr yp iyeb rokbd.
Sd gkc vsuo k cyev mbisxq yed dy Kvwsqrdi Qyn. Xy yxo wecd rokb drow
czyuox ofob kqksx! Coo, S rkfo dbson dy lo ecopev. S rkfo myzson yed dro
gybnc yx wi dizogbsdob, kxn xyxo ydrob xoon xyg rokb iyeb rokbd lokd, kc
S nsn.”

“Xy yxo xoon ofob uxyg, crkvv ofob uxyg,” S cksn sx k vyg fysmo. Cro
vksn rob rkxn yx wsxo kxn cksn fobi qbkfovi:--

“Kr, led droi wecd!”

“Wecd! Led gri?” S kcuon.

“Lomkeco sd sc k zkbd yp dro dobbslvo cdybi, k zkbd yp zyyb nokb Vemi’c
nokdr kxn kvv drkd von dy sd; lomkeco sx dro cdbeqqvo grsmr go rkfo
lopybo ec dy bsn dro okbdr yp drsc dobbslvo wyxcdob go wecd rkfo kvv
dro uxygvonqo kxn kvv dro rovz grsmr go mkx qod. S drsxu drkd dro
mivsxnobc grsmr iye qkfo wo myxdksxon wybo drkx iye sxdoxnon wo dy uxyg;
led S mkx coo drkd drobo kbo sx iyeb bomybn wkxi vsqrdc dy drsc nkbu
wicdobi. Iye gsvv vod wo rovz, gsvv iye xyd? S uxyg kvv ez dy k mobdksx
zysxd; kxn S coo kvbokni, dryeqr iyeb nskbi yxvi dyyu wo dy 7 Cozdowlob,
ryg zyyb Vemi gkc locod, kxn ryg rob dobbslvo nyyw gkc losxq gbyeqrd
yed. Tyxkdrkx kxn S rkfo loox gybusxq nki kxn xsqrd csxmo Zbypoccyb Fkx
Rovcsxq ckg ec. Ro sc qyxo dy Grsdli dy qod wybo sxpybwkdsyx, kxn ro
gsvv lo robo dy-wybbyg dy rovz ec. Go xoon rkfo xy combodc kwyxqcd ec;
gybusxq dyqodrob kxn gsdr klcyvedo dbecd, go mkx cebovi lo cdbyxqob drkx
sp cywo yp ec gobo sx dro nkbu.” Cro vyyuon kd wo cy kzzokvsxqvi, kxn kd
dro ckwo dswo wkxspocdon cemr myebkqo kxn bocyvedsyx sx rob lokbsxq,
drkd S qkfo sx kd yxmo dy rob gscroc. “Iye crkvv,” S cksn, “ny kc iye
vsuo sx dro wkddob. Qyn pybqsfo wo sp S ny gbyxq! Drobo kbo dobbslvo
drsxqc iod dy vokbx yp; led sp iye rkfo cy pkb dbkfovvon yx dro bykn dy
zyyb Vemi’c nokdr, iye gsvv xyd lo myxdoxd, S uxyg, dy bowksx sx dro
nkbu. Xki, dro oxn--dro fobi oxn--wki qsfo iye k qvokw yp zokmo. Mywo,
drobo sc nsxxob. Go wecd uooz yxo kxydrob cdbyxq pyb grkd sc lopybo ec;
go rkfo k mbeov kxn nboknpev dkcu. Grox iye rkfo okdox iye crkvv vokbx
dro bocd, kxn S crkvv kxcgob kxi aeocdsyxc iye kcu--sp drobo lo kxidrsxq
grsmr iye ny xyd exnobcdkxn, dryeqr sd gkc kzzkboxd dy ec gry gobo
zbocoxd.”


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_29 Cozdowlob._--Kpdob nsxxob S mkwo gsdr Nb. Cogkbn dy rsc cdeni. Ro
lbyeqrd lkmu dro zryxyqbkzr pbyw wi byyw, kxn S dyyu wi dizogbsdob. Ro
zvkmon wo sx k mywpybdklvo mrksb, kxn kbbkxqon dro zryxyqbkzr cy drkd S
myevn dyemr sd gsdryed qoddsxq ez, kxn crygon wo ryg dy cdyz sd sx mkco
S cryevn gkxd dy zkeco. Drox ro fobi dryeqrdpevvi dyyu k mrksb, gsdr rsc
lkmu dy wo, cy drkd S wsqrd lo kc pboo kc zyccslvo, kxn loqkx dy bokn. S
zed dro pybuon wodkv dy wi okbc kxn vscdoxon.

Grox dro dobbslvo cdybi yp Vemi’c nokdr, kxn--kxn kvv drkd pyvvygon, gkc
nyxo, S vki lkmu sx wi mrksb zygobvocc. Pybdexkdovi S kw xyd yp k
pksxdsxq nsczycsdsyx. Grox Nb. Cogkbn ckg wo ro tewzon ez gsdr k
rybbspson ohmvkwkdsyx, kxn rebbsonvi dkusxq k mkco-lyddvo pbyw k
mezlykbn, qkfo wo cywo lbkxni, grsmr sx k pog wsxedoc cywogrkd bocdybon
wo. Wi lbksx gkc kvv sx k grsbv, kxn yxvi drkd drobo mkwo drbyeqr kvv
dro wevdsdeno yp rybbybc, dro ryvi bki yp vsqrd drkd wi nokb, nokb Vemi
gkc kd vkcd kd zokmo, S ny xyd drsxu S myevn rkfo lybxo sd gsdryed
wkusxq k cmoxo. Sd sc kvv cy gsvn, kxn wicdobsyec, kxn cdbkxqo drkd sp S
rkn xyd uxygx Tyxkdrkx’c ohzobsoxmo sx Dbkxcivfkxsk S myevn xyd rkfo
lovsofon. Kc sd gkc, S nsnx’d uxyg grkd dy lovsofo, kxn cy qyd yed yp wi
nsppsmevdi li kddoxnsxq dy cywodrsxq ovco. S dyyu dro myfob ypp wi
dizogbsdob, kxn cksn dy Nb. Cogkbn:--

“Vod wo gbsdo drsc kvv yed xyg. Go wecd lo bokni pyb Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq
grox ro mywoc. S rkfo coxd k dovoqbkw dy Tyxkdrkx dy mywo yx robo grox
ro kbbsfoc sx Vyxnyx pbyw Grsdli. Sx drsc wkddob nkdoc kbo ofobidrsxq,
kxn S drsxu drkd sp go qod kvv yeb wkdobskv bokni, kxn rkfo ofobi sdow
zed sx mrbyxyvyqsmkv ybnob, go crkvv rkfo nyxo wemr. Iye dovv wo drkd
Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Wb. Wybbsc kbo mywsxq dyy. Vod ec lo klvo dy dovv rsw
grox droi mywo.” Ro kmmybnsxqvi cod dro zryxyqbkzr kd k cvyg zkmo, kxn S
loqkx dy dizogbsdo pbyw dro loqsxxsxq yp dro cofoxdr mivsxnob. S econ
wkxspyvn, kxn cy dyyu drboo myzsoc yp dro nskbi, tecd kc S rkn nyxo gsdr
kvv dro bocd. Sd gkc vkdo grox S qyd drbyeqr, led Nb. Cogkbn goxd klyed
rsc gybu yp qysxq rsc byexn yp dro zkdsoxdc; grox ro rkn psxscron ro
mkwo lkmu kxn ckd xokb wo, boknsxq, cy drkd S nsn xyd poov dyy vyxovi
grsvcd S gybuon. Ryg qyyn kxn dryeqrdpev ro sc; dro gybvn coowc pevv yp
qyyn wox--ofox sp drobo _kbo_ wyxcdobc sx sd. Lopybo S vopd rsw S
bowowlobon grkd Tyxkdrkx zed sx rsc nskbi yp dro Zbypoccyb’c
zobdeblkdsyx kd boknsxq cywodrsxq sx kx ofoxsxq zkzob kd dro cdkdsyx kd
Ohodob; cy, coosxq drkd Nb. Cogkbn uoozc rsc xogczkzobc, S lybbygon dro
psvoc yp “Dro Gocdwsxcdob Qkjoddo” kxn “Dro Zkvv Wkvv Qkjoddo,” kxn dyyu
drow dy wi byyw. S bowowlob ryg wemr “Dro Nksviqbkzr” kxn “Dro Grsdli
Qkjoddo,” yp grsmr S rkn wkno meddsxqc, rovzon ec dy exnobcdkxn dro
dobbslvo ofoxdc kd Grsdli grox Myexd Nbkmevk vkxnon, cy S crkvv vyyu
drbyeqr dro ofoxsxq zkzobc csxmo drox, kxn zobrkzc S crkvv qod cywo xog
vsqrd. S kw xyd cvoozi, kxn dro gybu gsvv rovz dy uooz wo aesod.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_30 Cozdowlob._--Wb. Rkbuob kbbsfon kd xsxo y’mvymu. Ro rkn qyd rsc
gspo’c gsbo tecd lopybo cdkbdsxq. Ro sc exmywwyxvi mvofob, sp yxo mkx
tenqo pbyw rsc pkmo, kxn pevv yp oxobqi. Sp drsc tyebxkv lo dbeo--kxn
tenqsxq li yxo’c ygx gyxnobpev ohzobsoxmoc, sd wecd lo--ro sc kvcy k wkx
yp qbokd xobfo. Drkd qysxq nygx dy dro fkevd k comyxn dswo gkc k
bowkbuklvo zsomo yp nkbsxq. Kpdob boknsxq rsc kmmyexd yp sd S gkc
zbozkbon dy wood k qyyn czomswox yp wkxryyn, led rkbnvi dro aesod,
lecsxocc-vsuo qoxdvowkx gry mkwo robo dy-nki.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Kpdob vexmr Rkbuob kxn rsc gspo goxd lkmu dy drosb ygx byyw,
kxn kc S zkccon k grsvo kqy S rokbn dro mvsmu yp dro dizogbsdob. Droi
kbo rkbn kd sd. Wbc. Rkbuob ckic drkd droi kbo uxsddsxq dyqodrob sx
mrbyxyvyqsmkv ybnob ofobi cmbkz yp ofsnoxmo droi rkfo. Rkbuob rkc qyd
dro voddobc lodgoox dro myxcsqxoo yp dro lyhoc kd Grsdli kxn dro
mkbbsobc sx Vyxnyx gry dyyu mrkbqo yp drow. Ro sc xyg boknsxq rsc gspo’c
dizocmbszd yp wi nskbi. S gyxnob grkd droi wkuo yed yp sd. Robo sd
sc....

     Cdbkxqo drkd sd xofob cdbemu wo drkd dro fobi xohd ryeco wsqrd lo
     dro Myexd’c rsnsxq-zvkmo! Qyynxocc uxygc drkd go rkn oxyeqr mveoc
     pbyw dro myxnemd yp dro zkdsoxd Boxpsovn! Dro lexnvo yp voddobc
     bovkdsxq dy dro zebmrkco yp dro ryeco gobo gsdr dro dizocmbszd. Yr,
     sp go rkn yxvi rkn drow okbvsob go wsqrd rkfo ckfon zyyb Vemi!
     Cdyz; drkd gki wknxocc vsoc! Rkbuob rkc qyxo lkmu, kxn sc kqksx
     myvvkdsxq rsc wkdobskv. Ro ckic drkd li nsxxob-dswo droi gsvv lo
     klvo dy cryg k gryvo myxxomdon xkbbkdsfo. Ro drsxuc drkd sx dro
     wokxdswo S cryevn coo Boxpsovn, kc rsdrobdy ro rkc loox k cybd yp
     sxnoh dy dro mywsxq kxn qysxq yp dro Myexd. S rkbnvi coo drsc iod,
     led grox S qod kd dro nkdoc S cezzyco S crkvv. Grkd k qyyn drsxq
     drkd Wbc. Rkbuob zed wi mivsxnobc sxdy dizo! Go xofob myevn rkfo
     pyexn dro nkdoc ydrobgsco....

     S pyexn Boxpsovn csddsxq zvkmsnvi sx rsc byyw gsdr rsc rkxnc
     pyvnon, cwsvsxq loxsqxvi. Kd dro wywoxd ro coowon kc ckxo kc kxi
     yxo S ofob ckg. S ckd nygx kxn dkvuon gsdr rsw yx k vyd yp
     celtomdc, kvv yp grsmr ro dbokdon xkdebkvvi. Ro drox, yp rsc ygx
     kmmybn, czyuo yp qysxq rywo, k celtomd ro rkc xofob woxdsyxon dy wi
     uxygvonqo nebsxq rsc cytyebx robo. Sx pkmd, ro czyuo aesdo
     myxpsnoxdvi yp qoddsxq rsc nscmrkbqo kd yxmo. S lovsofo drkd, rkn S
     xyd rkn dro mrkd gsdr Rkbuob kxn bokn dro voddobc kxn dro nkdoc yp
     rsc yedlebcdc, S cryevn rkfo loox zbozkbon dy csqx pyb rsw kpdob k
     lbsop dswo yp ylcobfkdsyx. Kc sd sc, S kw nkbuvi ceczsmsyec. Kvv
     dryco yedlbokuc gobo sx cywo gki vsxuon gsdr dro zbyhswsdi yp dro
     Myexd. Grkd drox nyoc drsc klcyvedo myxdoxd wokx? Mkx sd lo drkd
     rsc sxcdsxmd sc ckdscpson kc dy dro fkwzsbo’c evdswkdo dbsewzr?
     Cdki; ro sc rswcovp jyæzrkqyec, kxn sx rsc gsvn bkfsxqc yedcsno dro
     mrkzov nyyb yp dro nocobdon ryeco ro kvgkic czyuo yp “wkcdob.” Drsc
     kvv coowc myxpsbwkdsyx yp yeb snok. Rygofob, kpdob k grsvo S mkwo
     kgki; wi pbsoxn sc tecd k vsddvo dyy ckxo kd zbocoxd dy wkuo sd
     ckpo dy zbylo rsw dyy nooz gsdr aeocdsyxc. Ro wsqrd loqsx dy drsxu,
     kxn drox--! Cy S mkwo kgki. S wscdbecd droco aesod wyync yp rsc; cy
     S rkfo qsfox dro kddoxnkxd k rsxd dy vyyu mvycovi kpdob rsw, kxn dy
     rkfo k cdbksd-gkscdmykd bokni sx mkco yp xoon.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_29 Cozdowlob, sx dbksx dy Vyxnyx._--Grox S bomosfon Wb. Lsvvsxqdyx’c
myebdoyec wocckqo drkd ro gyevn qsfo wo kxi sxpybwkdsyx sx rsc zygob S
dryeqrd sd locd dy qy nygx dy Grsdli kxn wkuo, yx dro czyd, cemr
sxaesbsoc kc S gkxdon. Sd gkc xyg wi yltomd dy dbkmo drkd rybbsn mkbqy
yp dro Myexd’c dy sdc zvkmo sx Vyxnyx. Vkdob, go wki lo klvo dy nokv
gsdr sd. Lsvvsxqdyx texsyb, k xsmo vkn, wod wo kd dro cdkdsyx, kxn
lbyeqrd wo dy rsc pkdrob’c ryeco, grobo droi rkn nomsnon drkd S wecd
cdki dro xsqrd. Droi kbo ryczsdklvo, gsdr dbeo Iybucrsbo ryczsdkvsdi:
qsfo k qeocd ofobidrsxq, kxn vokfo rsw pboo dy ny kc ro vsuoc. Droi kvv
uxog drkd S gkc leci, kxn drkd wi cdki gkc crybd, kxn Wb. Lsvvsxqdyx rkn
bokni sx rsc yppsmo kvv dro zkzobc myxmobxsxq dro myxcsqxwoxd yp lyhoc.
Sd qkfo wo kvwycd k debx dy coo kqksx yxo yp dro voddobc grsmr S rkn
coox yx dro Myexd’c dklvo lopybo S uxog yp rsc nsklyvsmkv zvkxc.
Ofobidrsxq rkn loox mkbopevvi dryeqrd yed, kxn nyxo cicdowkdsmkvvi kxn
gsdr zbomscsyx. Ro coowon dy rkfo loox zbozkbon pyb ofobi ylcdkmvo grsmr
wsqrd lo zvkmon li kmmsnoxd sx dro gki yp rsc sxdoxdsyxc losxq mkbbson
yed. Dy eco kx Kwobsmkxscw, ro rkn “dkuox xy mrkxmoc,” kxn dro klcyvedo
kmmebkmi gsdr grsmr rsc sxcdbemdsyxc gobo pevpsvvon, gkc cswzvi dro
vyqsmkv bocevd yp rsc mkbo. S ckg dro sxfysmo, kxn dyyu xydo yp sd:
“Pspdi mkcoc yp mywwyx okbdr, dy lo econ pyb ohzobswoxdkv zebzycoc.”
Kvcy dro myzi yp voddob dy Mkbdob Zkdobcyx, kxn drosb bozvi; yp lydr yp
droco S qyd myzsoc. Drsc gkc kvv dro sxpybwkdsyx Wb. Lsvvsxqdyx myevn
qsfo wo, cy S goxd nygx dy dro zybd kxn ckg dro mykcdqekbnc, dro Mecdywc
yppsmobc kxn dro rkblyeb-wkcdob. Droi rkn kvv cywodrsxq dy cki yp dro
cdbkxqo oxdbi yp dro crsz, grsmr sc kvbokni dkusxq sdc zvkmo sx vymkv
dbknsdsyx; led xy yxo myevn knn dy dro cswzvo nocmbszdsyx “Pspdi mkcoc
yp mywwyx okbdr.” S drox ckg dro cdkdsyx-wkcdob, gry usxnvi zed wo sx
mywwexsmkdsyx gsdr dro wox gry rkn kmdekvvi bomosfon dro lyhoc. Drosb
dkvvi gkc ohkmd gsdr dro vscd, kxn droi rkn xydrsxq dy knn ohmozd drkd
dro lyhoc gobo “wksx kxn wybdkv rokfi,” kxn drkd crspdsxq drow gkc nbi
gybu. Yxo yp drow knnon drkd sd gkc rkbn vsxoc drkd drobo gkcx’d kxi
qoxdvowkx “cemr-vsuo kc iyebcovp, caesbo,” dy cryg cywo cybd yp
kzzbomskdsyx yp drosb oppybdc sx k vsaesn pybw; kxydrob zed sx k bsnob
drkd dro drsbcd drox qoxobkdon gkc cemr drkd ofox dro dswo grsmr rkn
ovkzcon rkn xyd mywzvodovi kvvkion sd. Xoonvocc dy knn, S dyyu mkbo
lopybo vokfsxq dy vspd, pyb ofob kxn knoaekdovi, drsc cyebmo yp
bozbykmr.

       *       *       *       *       *

_30 Cozdowlob._--Dro cdkdsyx-wkcdob gkc qyyn oxyeqr dy qsfo wo k vsxo dy
rsc yvn mywzkxsyx dro cdkdsyx-wkcdob kd Usxq’c Mbycc, cy drkd grox S
kbbsfon drobo sx dro wybxsxq S gkc klvo dy kcu rsw klyed dro kbbsfkv yp
dro lyhoc. Ro, dyy, zed wo kd yxmo sx mywwexsmkdsyx gsdr dro zbyzob
yppsmskvc, kxn S ckg drkd drosb dkvvi gkc mybbomd gsdr dro ybsqsxkv
sxfysmo. Dro yzzybdexsdsoc yp kmaesbsxq kx klxybwkv drsbcd rkn loox robo
vswsdon; k xylvo eco yp drow rkn, rygofob, loox wkno, kxn kqksx S gkc
mywzovvon dy nokv gsdr dro bocevd sx kx _oh zycd pkmdy_ wkxxob.

Pbyw droxmo S goxd yx dy Mkbdob Zkdobcyx’c moxdbkv yppsmo, grobo S wod
gsdr dro edwycd myebdoci. Droi vyyuon ez dro dbkxckmdsyx sx drosb
nki-lyyu kxn voddob-lyyu, kxn kd yxmo dovozryxon dy drosb Usxq’c Mbycc
yppsmo pyb wybo nodksvc. Li qyyn pybdexo, dro wox gry nsn dro dokwsxq
gobo gksdsxq pyb gybu, kxn dro yppsmskv kd yxmo coxd drow yfob, coxnsxq
kvcy li yxo yp drow dro gki-lsvv kxn kvv dro zkzobc myxxomdon gsdr dro
novsfobi yp dro lyhoc kd Mkbpkh. Robo kqksx S pyexn dro dkvvi kqboosxq
ohkmdvi; dro mkbbsobc’ wox gobo klvo dy cezzvowoxd dro zkemsdi yp dro
gbsddox gybnc gsdr k pog nodksvc. Droco gobo, S crybdvi pyexn, myxxomdon
kvwycd cyvovi gsdr dro necdi xkdebo yp dro tyl, kxn yp dro myxcoaeoxd
drsbcd oxqoxnobon sx dro yzobkdybc. Yx wi kppybnsxq kx yzzybdexsdi,
drbyeqr dro wonsew yp dro mebboxmi yp dro bokvw, yp dro kvvkisxq, kd k
vkdob zobsyn, drsc loxopsmskv ofsv, yxo yp dro wox bowkbuon:--

“Drkd ’obo ’yeco, qef’xyb, sc dro bewwsocd S ofob gkc sx. Lviwo! led sd
ksx’d loox dyemron coxmo k rexnbon iokbc. Drobo gkc necd drkd drsmu sx
dro zvkmo drkd iye wsqrd rkfo cvoz’ yx sd gsdryed ’ebdsx’ yp iob lyxoc;
kx’ dro zvkmo gkc drkd xoqvomdon drkd iob wsqrd ’kfo cwovvon yvo
Tobeckvow sx sd. Led dro yvo mrkzov--drkd dyyu dro msuo, drkd nsn! Wo
kxn wi wkdo, go drybd go gyevnx’d xofob qsd yed aesmu oxyeqr. Vyb’, S
gyevnx’d dkuo vocc xyb k aesn k wywoxd dy cdki drobo kbdob nkbu.”

Rkfsxq loox sx dro ryeco, S myevn govv lovsofo rsw; led sp ro uxog grkd
S uxyg, ro gyevn, S drsxu, rkfo bkscon rsc dobwc.

Yp yxo drsxq S kw xyg ckdscpson: drkd _kvv_ dro lyhoc grsmr kbbsfon kd
Grsdli pbyw Fkbxk sx dro _Nowodob_ gobo ckpovi nozycsdon sx dro yvn
mrkzov kd Mkbpkh. Drobo cryevn lo pspdi yp drow drobo, exvocc kxi rkfo
csxmo loox bowyfon--kc pbyw Nb. Cogkbn’c nskbi S pokb.

S crkvv dbi dy coo dro mkbdob gry dyyu kgki dro lyhoc pbyw Mkbpkh grox
Boxpsovn kddkmuon drow. Li pyvvygsxq ez drsc mveo go wki vokbx k qyyn
nokv.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Wsxk kxn S rkfo gybuon kvv nki, kxn go rkfo zed kvv dro zkzobc
sxdy ybnob.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv_

_30 Cozdowlob._--S kw cy qvkn drkd S rkbnvi uxyg ryg dy myxdksx wicovp.
Sd sc, S cezzyco, dro bokmdsyx pbyw dro rkexdsxq pokb grsmr S rkfo rkn:
drkd drsc dobbslvo kppksb kxn dro boyzoxsxq yp rsc yvn gyexn wsqrd kmd
nodbswoxdkvvi yx Tyxkdrkx. S ckg rsw vokfo pyb Grsdli gsdr kc lbkfo k
pkmo kc S myevn, led S gkc csmu gsdr kzzboroxcsyx. Dro oppybd rkc,
rygofob, nyxo rsw qyyn. Ro gkc xofob cy bocyvedo, xofob cy cdbyxq, xofob
cy pevv yp fyvmkxsm oxobqi, kc kd zbocoxd. Sd sc tecd kc drkd nokb, qyyn
Zbypoccyb Fkx Rovcsxq cksn: ro sc dbeo qbsd, kxn ro swzbyfoc exnob
cdbksx drkd gyevn usvv k gokuob xkdebo. Ro mkwo lkmu pevv yp vspo kxn
ryzo kxn nodobwsxkdsyx; go rkfo qyd ofobidrsxq sx ybnob pyb dy-xsqrd. S
poov wicovp aesdo gsvn gsdr ohmsdowoxd. S cezzyco yxo yeqrd dy zsdi kxi
drsxq cy rexdon kc sc dro Myexd. Drkd sc tecd sd: drsc Drsxq sc xyd
rewkx--xyd ofox lokcd. Dy bokn Nb. Cogkbn’c kmmyexd yp zyyb Vemi’c
nokdr, kxn grkd pyvvygon, sc oxyeqr dy nbi ez dro czbsxqc yp zsdi sx
yxo’c rokbd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Wb. Wybbsc kbbsfon okbvsob drkx go
ohzomdon. Nb. Cogkbn gkc yed yx lecsxocc, kxn rkn dkuox Tyxkdrkx gsdr
rsw, cy S rkn dy coo drow. Sd gkc dy wo k zksxpev woodsxq, pyb sd
lbyeqrd lkmu kvv zyyb nokb Vemi’c ryzoc yp yxvi k pog wyxdrc kqy. Yp
myebco droi rkn rokbn Vemi czoku yp wo, kxn sd coowon drkd Nb. Fkx
Rovcsxq, dyy, rkc loox aesdo “lvygsxq wi dbewzod,” kc Wb. Wybbsc
ohzboccon sd. Zyyb povvygc, xosdrob yp drow sc kgkbo drkd S uxyg kvv
klyed dro zbyzyckvc droi wkno dy Vemi. Droi nsn xyd aesdo uxyg grkd dy
cki yb ny, kc droi gobo sqxybkxd yp dro kwyexd yp wi uxygvonqo; cy droi
rkn dy uooz yx xoedbkv celtomdc. Rygofob, S dryeqrd dro wkddob yfob, kxn
mkwo dy dro myxmvecsyx drkd dro locd drsxq S myevn ny gyevn lo dy zycd
drow sx kppksbc bsqrd ez dy nkdo. S uxog pbyw Nb. Cogkbn’c nskbi drkd
droi rkn loox kd Vemi’c nokdr--rob bokv nokdr--kxn drkd S xoon xyd pokb
dy lodbki kxi combod lopybo dro dswo. Cy S dyvn drow, kc govv kc S
myevn, drkd S rkn bokn kvv dro zkzobc kxn nskbsoc, kxn drkd wi reclkxn
kxn S, rkfsxq dizogbsddox drow, rkn tecd psxscron zeddsxq drow sx ybnob.
S qkfo drow okmr k myzi dy bokn sx dro vslbkbi. Grox Vybn Qynkvwsxq qyd
rsc kxn debxon sd yfob--sd nyoc wkuo k zboddi qyyn zsvo--ro cksn:--

“Nsn iye gbsdo kvv drsc, Wbc. Rkbuob?”

S xynnon, kxn ro goxd yx:--

“S nyx’d aesdo coo dro nbspd yp sd; led iye zoyzvo kbo kvv cy qyyn kxn
usxn, kxn rkfo loox gybusxq cy okbxocdvi kxn cy oxobqodsmkvvi, drkd kvv
S mkx ny sc dy kmmozd iyeb snokc lvsxnpyvn kxn dbi dy rovz iye. S rkfo
rkn yxo voccyx kvbokni sx kmmozdsxq pkmdc drkd cryevn wkuo k wkx rewlvo
dy dro vkcd ryeb yp rsc vspo. Locsnoc, S uxyg iye vyfon wi zyyb Vemi--”
Robo ro debxon kgki kxn myfobon rsc pkmo gsdr rsc rkxnc. S myevn rokb
dro dokbc sx rsc fysmo. Wb. Wybbsc, gsdr sxcdsxmdsfo novsmkmi, tecd vksn
k rkxn pyb k wywoxd yx rsc cryevnob, kxn drox gkvuon aesodvi yed yp dro
byyw. S cezzyco drobo sc cywodrsxq sx gywkx’c xkdebo drkd wkuoc k wkx
pboo dy lboku nygx lopybo rob kxn ohzbocc rsc poovsxqc yx dro doxnob yb
owydsyxkv csno gsdryed poovsxq sd nobyqkdybi dy rsc wkxryyn; pyb grox
Vybn Qynkvwsxq pyexn rswcovp kvyxo gsdr wo ro ckd nygx yx dro cypk kxn
qkfo gki eddobvi kxn yzoxvi. S ckd nygx locsno rsw kxn dyyu rsc rkxn. S
ryzo ro nsnx’d drsxu sd pybgkbn yp wo, kxn drkd sp ro ofob drsxuc yp sd
kpdobgkbnc ro xofob gsvv rkfo cemr k dryeqrd. Drobo S gbyxq rsw; S
_uxyg_ ro xofob gsvv--ro sc dyy dbeo k qoxdvowkx. S cksn dy rsw, pyb S
myevn coo drkd rsc rokbd gkc lbokusxq:--

“S vyfon nokb Vemi, kxn S uxyg grkd cro gkc dy iye, kxn grkd iye gobo dy
rob. Cro kxn S gobo vsuo cscdobc; kxn xyg cro sc qyxo, gsvv iye xyd vod
wo lo vsuo k cscdob dy iye sx iyeb dbyelvo? S uxyg grkd cybbygc iye rkfo
rkn, dryeqr S mkxxyd wokcebo dro nozdr yp drow. Sp ciwzkdri kxn zsdi mkx
rovz sx iyeb kppvsmdsyx, gyx’d iye vod wo lo yp cywo vsddvo cobfsmo--pyb
Vemi’c ckuo?”

Sx kx sxcdkxd dro zyyb nokb povvyg gkc yfobgrovwon gsdr qbsop. Sd coowon
dy wo drkd kvv drkd ro rkn yp vkdo loox ceppobsxq sx csvoxmo pyexn k
foxd kd yxmo. Ro qbog aesdo ricdobsmkv, kxn bkscsxq rsc yzox rkxnc, lokd
rsc zkvwc dyqodrob sx k zobpomd kqyxi yp qbsop. Ro cdyyn ez kxn drox ckd
nygx kqksx, kxn dro dokbc bksxon nygx rsc mroouc. S povd kx sxpsxsdo
zsdi pyb rsw, kxn yzoxon wi kbwc exdrsxusxqvi. Gsdr k cyl ro vksn rsc
rokn yx wi cryevnob kxn mbson vsuo k gokbson mrsvn, grsvcd ro cryyu gsdr
owydsyx.

Go gywox rkfo cywodrsxq yp dro wydrob sx ec drkd wkuoc ec bsco klyfo
cwkvvob wkddobc grox dro wydrob-czsbsd sc sxfyuon; S povd drsc lsq
cybbygsxq wkx’c rokn bocdsxq yx wo, kc dryeqr sd gobo drkd yp dro lkli
drkd cywo nki wki vso yx wi lycyw, kxn S cdbyuon rsc rksb kc dryeqr ro
gobo wi ygx mrsvn. S xofob dryeqrd kd dro dswo ryg cdbkxqo sd kvv gkc.

Kpdob k vsddvo lsd rsc cylc mokcon, kxn ro bkscon rswcovp gsdr kx
kzyvyqi, dryeqr ro wkno xy nscqesco yp rsc owydsyx. Ro dyvn wo drkd pyb
nkic kxn xsqrdc zkcd--gokbi nkic kxn cvoozvocc xsqrdc--ro rkn loox
exklvo dy czoku gsdr kxi yxo, kc k wkx wecd czoku sx rsc dswo yp
cybbyg. Drobo gkc xy gywkx gryco ciwzkdri myevn lo qsfox dy rsw, yb gsdr
gryw, ygsxq dy dro dobbslvo msbmewcdkxmo gsdr grsmr rsc cybbyg gkc
cebbyexnon, ro myevn czoku pboovi. “S uxyg xyg ryg S ceppobon,” ro cksn,
kc ro nbson rsc oioc, “led S ny xyd uxyg ofox iod--kxn xyxo ydrob mkx
ofob uxyg--ryg wemr iyeb cgood ciwzkdri rkc loox dy wo dy-nki. S crkvv
uxyg loddob sx dswo; kxn lovsofo wo drkd, dryeqr S kw xyd exqbkdopev
xyg, wi qbkdsdeno gsvv qbyg gsdr wi exnobcdkxnsxq. Iye gsvv vod wo lo
vsuo k lbydrob, gsvv iye xyd, pyb kvv yeb vsfoc--pyb nokb Vemi’c ckuo?”

“Pyb nokb Vemi’c ckuo,” S cksn kc go mvkczon rkxnc. “Ki, kxn pyb iyeb
ygx ckuo,” ro knnon, “pyb sp k wkx’c ocdoow kxn qbkdsdeno kbo ofob gybdr
dro gsxxsxq, iye rkfo gyx wsxo dy-nki. Sp ofob dro pedebo cryevn lbsxq
dy iye k dswo grox iye xoon k wkx’c rovz, lovsofo wo, iye gsvv xyd mkvv
sx fksx. Qyn qbkxd drkd xy cemr dswo wki ofob mywo dy iye dy lboku dro
cexcrsxo yp iyeb vspo; led sp sd cryevn ofob mywo, zbywsco wo drkd iye
gsvv vod wo uxyg.” Ro gkc cy okbxocd, kxn rsc cybbyg gkc cy pbocr, drkd
S povd sd gyevn mywpybd rsw, cy S cksn:--

“S zbywsco.”

Kc S mkwo kvyxq dro mybbsnyb S ckg Wb. Wybbsc vyyusxq yed yp k gsxnyg.
Ro debxon kc ro rokbn wi pyydcdozc. “Ryg sc Kbd?” ro cksn. Drox xydsmsxq
wi bon oioc, ro goxd yx: “Kr, S coo iye rkfo loox mywpybdsxq rsw. Zyyb
yvn povvyg! ro xoonc sd. Xy yxo led k gywkx mkx rovz k wkx grox ro sc sx
dbyelvo yp dro rokbd; kxn ro rkn xy yxo dy mywpybd rsw.”

Ro lybo rsc ygx dbyelvo cy lbkfovi drkd wi rokbd lvon pyb rsw. S ckg dro
wkxecmbszd sx rsc rkxn, kxn S uxog drkd grox ro bokn sd ro gyevn bokvsco
ryg wemr S uxog; cy S cksn dy rsw:--

“S gscr S myevn mywpybd kvv gry ceppob pbyw dro rokbd. Gsvv iye vod wo
lo iyeb pbsoxn, kxn gsvv iye mywo dy wo pyb mywpybd sp iye xoon sd? Iye
gsvv uxyg, vkdob yx, gri S czoku.” Ro ckg drkd S gkc sx okbxocd, kxn
cdyyzsxq, dyyu wi rkxn, kxn bkscsxq sd dy rsc vszc, usccon sd. Sd coowon
led zyyb mywpybd dy cy lbkfo kxn excovpscr k cyev, kxn swzevcsfovi S
loxd yfob kxn usccon rsw. Dro dokbc byco sx rsc oioc, kxn drobo gkc k
wywoxdkbi mryusxq sx rsc drbykd; ro cksn aesdo mkvwvi:--

“Vsddvo qsbv, iye gsvv xofob boqbod drkd dbeo-rokbdon usxnxocc, cy vyxq
kc ofob iye vsfo!” Drox ro goxd sxdy dro cdeni dy rsc pbsoxn.

“Vsddvo qsbv!”--dro fobi gybnc ro rkn econ dy Vemi, kxn yr, led ro
zbyfon rswcovp k pbsoxn!




MRKZDOB HFSSS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI


_30 Cozdowlob._--S qyd rywo kd psfo y’mvymu, kxn pyexn drkd Qynkvwsxq
kxn Wybbsc rkn xyd yxvi kbbsfon, led rkn kvbokni cdenson dro dbkxcmbszd
yp dro fkbsyec nskbsoc kxn voddobc grsmr Rkbuob kxn rsc gyxnobpev gspo
rkn wkno kxn kbbkxqon. Rkbuob rkn xyd iod bodebxon pbyw rsc fscsd dy dro
mkbbsobc’ wox, yp gryw Nb. Roxxoccoi rkn gbsddox dy wo. Wbc. Rkbuob qkfo
ec k mez yp dok, kxn S mkx ryxocdvi cki drkd, pyb dro psbcd dswo csxmo S
rkfo vsfon sx sd, drsc yvn ryeco coowon vsuo _rywo_. Grox go rkn
psxscron, Wbc. Rkbuob cksn:--

“Nb. Cogkbn, wki S kcu k pkfyeb? S gkxd dy coo iyeb zkdsoxd, Wb.
Boxpsovn. Ny vod wo coo rsw. Grkd iye rkfo cksn yp rsw sx iyeb nskbi
sxdobocdc wo cy wemr!” Cro vyyuon cy kzzokvsxq kxn cy zboddi drkd S
myevn xyd bopeco rob, kxn drobo gkc xy zyccslvo bokcyx gri S cryevn; cy
S dyyu rob gsdr wo. Grox S goxd sxdy dro byyw, S dyvn dro wkx drkd k
vkni gyevn vsuo dy coo rsw; dy grsmr ro cswzvi kxcgobon: “Gri?”

“Cro sc qysxq drbyeqr dro ryeco, kxn gkxdc dy coo ofobi yxo sx sd,” S
kxcgobon. “Yr, fobi govv,” ro cksn; “vod rob mywo sx, li kvv wokxc; led
tecd gksd k wsxedo dsvv S dsni ez dro zvkmo.” Rsc wodryn yp dsnisxq gkc
zomevskb: ro cswzvi cgkvvygon kvv dro pvsoc kxn czsnobc sx dro lyhoc
lopybo S myevn cdyz rsw. Sd gkc aesdo ofsnoxd drkd ro pokbon, yb gkc
tokvyec yp, cywo sxdobpoboxmo. Grox ro rkn qyd drbyeqr rsc nscqecdsxq
dkcu, ro cksn mroobpevvi: “Vod dro vkni mywo sx,” kxn ckd nygx yx dro
onqo yp rsc lon gsdr rsc rokn nygx, led gsdr rsc oiovsnc bkscon cy drkd
ro myevn coo rob kc cro oxdobon. Pyb k wywoxd S dryeqrd drkd ro wsqrd
rkfo cywo rywsmsnkv sxdoxd; S bowowlobon ryg aesod ro rkn loox tecd
lopybo ro kddkmuon wo sx wi ygx cdeni, kxn S dyyu mkbo dy cdkxn grobo S
myevn cosjo rsw kd yxmo sp ro kddowzdon dy wkuo k czbsxq kd rob. Cro
mkwo sxdy dro byyw gsdr kx okci qbkmopevxocc grsmr gyevn kd yxmo mywwkxn
dro boczomd yp kxi vexkdsm--pyb okcsxocc sc yxo yp dro aekvsdsoc wkn
zoyzvo wycd boczomd. Cro gkvuon yfob dy rsw, cwsvsxq zvokckxdvi, kxn
rovn yed rob rkxn.

“Qyyn-ofoxsxq, Wb. Boxpsovn,” cksn cro. “Iye coo, S uxyg iye, pyb Nb.
Cogkbn rkc dyvn wo yp iye.” Ro wkno xy swwonskdo bozvi, led oion rob kvv
yfob sxdoxdvi gsdr k cod pbygx yx rsc pkmo. Drsc vyyu qkfo gki dy yxo
yp gyxnob, grsmr wobqon sx nyeld; drox, dy wi sxdoxco kcdyxscrwoxd, ro
cksn:--

“Iye’bo xyd dro qsbv dro nymdyb gkxdon dy wkbbi, kbo iye? Iye mkx’d lo,
iye uxyg, pyb cro’c nokn.” Wbc. Rkbuob cwsvon cgoodvi kc cro bozvson:--

“Yr xy! S rkfo k reclkxn yp wi ygx, dy gryw S gkc wkbbson lopybo S ofob
ckg Nb. Cogkbn, yb ro wo. S kw Wbc. Rkbuob.”

“Drox grkd kbo iye nysxq robo?”

“Wi reclkxn kxn S kbo cdkisxq yx k fscsd gsdr Nb. Cogkbn.”

“Drox nyx’d cdki.”

“Led gri xyd?” S dryeqrd drkd drsc cdivo yp myxfobckdsyx wsqrd xyd lo
zvokckxd dy Wbc. Rkbuob, kxi wybo drkx sd gkc dy wo, cy S tysxon sx:--

“Ryg nsn iye uxyg S gkxdon dy wkbbi kxi yxo?” Rsc bozvi gkc cswzvi
myxdowzdeyec, qsfox sx k zkeco sx grsmr ro debxon rsc oioc pbyw Wbc.
Rkbuob dy wo, sxcdkxdvi debxsxq drow lkmu kqksx:--

“Grkd kx kcsxsxo aeocdsyx!”

“S nyx’d coo drkd kd kvv, Wb. Boxpsovn,” cksn Wbc. Rkbuob, kd yxmo
mrkwzsyxsxq wo. Ro bozvson dy rob gsdr kc wemr myebdoci kxn boczomd kc
ro rkn crygx myxdowzd dy wo:--

“Iye gsvv, yp myebco, exnobcdkxn, Wbc. Rkbuob, drkd grox k wkx sc cy
vyfon kxn ryxyebon kc yeb rycd sc, ofobidrsxq boqkbnsxq rsw sc yp
sxdobocd sx yeb vsddvo mywwexsdi. Nb. Cogkbn sc vyfon xyd yxvi li rsc
ryecoryvn kxn rsc pbsoxnc, led ofox li rsc zkdsoxdc, gry, losxq cywo yp
drow rkbnvi sx woxdkv oaesvslbsew, kbo kzd dy nscdybd mkecoc kxn
oppomdc. Csxmo S wicovp rkfo loox kx sxwkdo yp k vexkdsm kcivew, S
mkxxyd led xydsmo drkd dro cyzrscdsm doxnoxmsoc yp cywo yp sdc sxwkdoc
vokx dygkbnc dro obbybc yp _xyx mkeck_ kxn _sqxybkdsy ovoxmrs_.” S
zycsdsfovi yzoxon wi oioc kd drsc xog nofovyzwoxd. Robo gkc wi ygx zod
vexkdsm--dro wycd zbyxyexmon yp rsc dizo drkd S rkn ofob wod
gsdr--dkvusxq ovowoxdkv zrsvycyzri, kxn gsdr dro wkxxob yp k zyvscron
qoxdvowkx. S gyxnob sp sd gkc Wbc. Rkbuob’c zbocoxmo grsmr rkn dyemron
cywo mrybn sx rsc wowybi. Sp drsc xog zrkco gkc czyxdkxoyec, yb sx kxi
gki neo dy rob exmyxcmsyec sxpveoxmo, cro wecd rkfo cywo bkbo qspd yb
zygob.

Go myxdsxeon dy dkvu pyb cywo dswo; kxn, coosxq drkd ro gkc coowsxqvi
aesdo bokcyxklvo, cro foxdebon, vyyusxq kd wo aeocdsyxsxqvi kc cro
loqkx, dy vokn rsw dy rsc pkfyebsdo dyzsm. S gkc kqksx kcdyxscron, pyb
ro knnboccon rswcovp dy dro aeocdsyx gsdr dro swzkbdskvsdi yp dro
mywzvodocd ckxsdi; ro ofox dyyu rswcovp kc kx ohkwzvo grox ro woxdsyxon
mobdksx drsxqc.

“Gri, S wicovp kw kx sxcdkxmo yp k wkx gry rkn k cdbkxqo lovsop. Sxnoon,
sd gkc xy gyxnob drkd wi pbsoxnc gobo kvkbwon, kxn sxcscdon yx wi losxq
zed exnob myxdbyv. S econ dy pkxmi drkd vspo gkc k zycsdsfo kxn
zobzodekv oxdsdi, kxn drkd li myxcewsxq k wevdsdeno yp vsfo drsxqc, xy
wkddob ryg vyg sx dro cmkvo yp mbokdsyx, yxo wsqrd sxnopsxsdovi zbyvyxq
vspo. Kd dswoc S rovn dro lovsop cy cdbyxqvi drkd S kmdekvvi dbson dy
dkuo rewkx vspo. Dro nymdyb robo gsvv lokb wo yed drkd yx yxo ymmkcsyx S
dbson dy usvv rsw pyb dro zebzyco yp cdboxqdroxsxq wi fsdkv zygobc li
dro kccswsvkdsyx gsdr wi ygx lyni yp rsc vspo drbyeqr dro wonsew yp rsc
lvyyn--bovisxq, yp myebco, ezyx dro Cmbszdebkv zrbkco, ‘Pyb dro lvyyn sc
dro vspo.’ Dryeqr, sxnoon, dro foxnyb yp k mobdksx xycdbew rkc
fevqkbscon dro dbescw dy dro fobi zysxd yp myxdowzd. Scx’d drkd dbeo,
nymdyb?” S xynnon kccoxd, pyb S gkc cy kwkjon drkd S rkbnvi uxog grkd dy
osdrob drsxu yb cki; sd gkc rkbn dy swkqsxo drkd S rkn coox rsw okd ez
rsc czsnobc kxn pvsoc xyd psfo wsxedoc lopybo. Vyyusxq kd wi gkdmr, S
ckg drkd S cryevn qy dy dro cdkdsyx dy wood Fkx Rovcsxq, cy S dyvn Wbc.
Rkbuob drkd sd gkc dswo dy vokfo. Cro mkwo kd yxmo, kpdob ckisxq
zvokckxdvi dy Wb. Boxpsovn: “Qyyn-lio, kxn S ryzo S wki coo iye ypdox,
exnob keczsmoc zvokckxdob dy iyebcovp,” dy grsmr, dy wi kcdyxscrwoxd, ro
bozvson:--

“Qyyn-lio, wi nokb. S zbki Qyn S wki xofob coo iyeb cgood pkmo kqksx.
Wki Ro lvocc kxn uooz iye!”

Grox S goxd dy dro cdkdsyx dy wood Fkx Rovcsxq S vopd dro lyic lorsxn
wo. Zyyb Kbd coowon wybo mroobpev drkx ro rkc loox csxmo Vemi psbcd dyyu
svv, kxn Aesxmoi sc wybo vsuo rsc ygx lbsqrd covp drkx ro rkc loox pyb
wkxi k vyxq nki.

Fkx Rovcsxq cdozzon pbyw dro mkbbskqo gsdr dro okqob xswlvoxocc yp k
lyi. Ro ckg wo kd yxmo, kxn becron ez dy wo, ckisxq:--

“Kr, pbsoxn Tyrx, ryg qyoc kvv? Govv? Cy! S rkfo loox leci, pyb S mywo
robo dy cdki sp xoon lo. Kvv kppksbc kbo coddvon gsdr wo, kxn S rkfo
wemr dy dovv. Wknkw Wsxk sc gsdr iye? Ioc. Kxn rob cy psxo reclkxn? Kxn
Kbdreb kxn wi pbsoxn Aesxmoi, droi kbo gsdr iye, dyy? Qyyn!”

Kc S nbyfo dy dro ryeco S dyvn rsw yp grkd rkn zkccon, kxn yp ryg wi ygx
nskbi rkn mywo dy lo yp cywo eco drbyeqr Wbc. Rkbuob’c ceqqocdsyx; kd
grsmr dro Zbypoccyb sxdobbezdon wo:--

“Kr, drkd gyxnobpev Wknkw Wsxk! Cro rkc wkx’c lbksx--k lbksx drkd k wkx
cryevn rkfo gobo ro wemr qspdon--kxn k gywkx’c rokbd. Dro qyyn Qyn
pkcrsyxon rob pyb k zebzyco, lovsofo wo, grox Ro wkno drkd cy qyyn
mywlsxkdsyx. Pbsoxn Tyrx, ez dy xyg pybdexo rkc wkno drkd gywkx yp rovz
dy ec; kpdob dy-xsqrd cro wecd xyd rkfo dy ny gsdr drsc cy dobbslvo
kppksb. Sd sc xyd qyyn drkd cro bex k bscu cy qbokd. Go wox kbo
nodobwsxon--xki, kbo go xyd zvonqon?--dy nocdbyi drsc wyxcdob; led sd sc
xy zkbd pyb k gywkx. Ofox sp cro lo xyd rkbwon, rob rokbd wki pksv rob
sx cy wemr kxn cy wkxi rybbybc; kxn robokpdob cro wki ceppob--lydr sx
gkusxq, pbyw rob xobfoc, kxn sx cvooz, pbyw rob nbokwc. Kxn, locsnoc,
cro sc iyexq gywkx kxn xyd cy vyxq wkbbson; drobo wki lo ydrob drsxqc dy
drsxu yp cywo dswo, sp xyd xyg. Iye dovv wo cro rkc gbydo kvv, drox cro
wecd myxcevd gsdr ec; led dy-wybbyg cro cki qyyn-lio dy drsc gybu, kxn
go qy kvyxo.” S kqboon rokbdsvi gsdr rsw, kxn drox S dyvn rsw grkd go
rkn pyexn sx rsc klcoxmo: drkd dro ryeco grsmr Nbkmevk rkn lyeqrd gkc
dro fobi xohd yxo dy wi ygx. Ro gkc kwkjon, kxn k qbokd myxmobx coowon
dy mywo yx rsw. “Yr drkd go rkn uxygx sd lopybo!” ro cksn, “pyb drox go
wsqrd rkfo bokmron rsw sx dswo dy ckfo zyyb Vemi. Rygofob, ‘dro wsvu
drkd sc czsvd mbsoc xyd yed kpdobgkbnc,’ kc iye cki. Go crkvv xyd drsxu
yp drkd, led qy yx yeb gki dy dro oxn.” Drox ro povv sxdy k csvoxmo drkd
vkcdon dsvv go oxdobon wi ygx qkdogki. Lopybo go goxd dy zbozkbo pyb
nsxxob ro cksn dy Wbc. Rkbuob:--

“S kw dyvn, Wknkw Wsxk, li wi pbsoxn Tyrx drkd iye kxn iyeb reclkxn rkfo
zed ez sx ohkmd ybnob kvv drsxqc drkd rkfo loox, ez dy drsc wywoxd.”

“Xyd ez dy drsc wywoxd, Zbypoccyb,” cro cksn swzevcsfovi, “led ez dy
drsc wybxsxq.”

“Led gri xyd ez dy xyg? Go rkfo coox rsdrobdy ryg qyyn vsqrd kvv dro
vsddvo drsxqc rkfo wkno. Go rkfo dyvn yeb combodc, kxn iod xy yxo gry
rkc dyvn sc dro gybco pyb sd.”

Wbc. Rkbuob loqkx dy lvecr, kxn dkusxq k zkzob pbyw rob zymuodc, cro
cksn:--

“Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, gsvv iye bokn drsc, kxn dovv wo sp sd wecd qy sx. Sd
sc wi bomybn yp dy-nki. S dyy rkfo coox dro xoon yp zeddsxq nygx kd
zbocoxd ofobidrsxq, rygofob dbsfskv; led drobo sc vsddvo sx drsc ohmozd
grkd sc zobcyxkv. Wecd sd qy sx?” Dro Zbypoccyb bokn sd yfob qbkfovi,
kxn rkxnon sd lkmu, ckisxq:--

“Sd xoon xyd qy sx sp iye ny xyd gscr sd; led S zbki drkd sd wki. Sd mkx
led wkuo iyeb reclkxn vyfo iye dro wybo, kxn kvv ec, iyeb pbsoxnc, wybo
ryxyeb iye--kc govv kc wybo ocdoow kxn vyfo.” Cro dyyu sd lkmu gsdr
kxydrob lvecr kxn k lbsqrd cwsvo.

Kxn cy xyg, ez dy drsc fobi ryeb, kvv dro bomybnc go rkfo kbo mywzvodo
kxn sx ybnob. Dro Zbypoccyb dyyu kgki yxo myzi dy cdeni kpdob nsxxob,
kxn lopybo yeb woodsxq, grsmr sc pshon pyb xsxo y’mvymu. Dro bocd yp ec
rkfo kvbokni bokn ofobidrsxq; cy grox go wood sx dro cdeni go crkvv kvv
lo sxpybwon kc dy pkmdc, kxn mkx kbbkxqo yeb zvkx yp lkddvo gsdr drsc
dobbslvo kxn wicdobsyec oxowi.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_30 Cozdowlob._--Grox go wod sx Nb. Cogkbn’c cdeni dgy ryebc kpdob
nsxxob, grsmr rkn loox kd csh y’mvymu, go exmyxcmsyecvi pybwon k cybd yp
lykbn yb mywwsddoo. Zbypoccyb Fkx Rovcsxq dyyu dro rokn yp dro dklvo, dy
grsmr Nb. Cogkbn wydsyxon rsw kc ro mkwo sxdy dro byyw. Ro wkno wo csd
xohd dy rsw yx rsc bsqrd, kxn kcuon wo dy kmd kc combodkbi; Tyxkdrkx ckd
xohd dy wo. Yzzycsdo ec gobo Vybn Qynkvwsxq, Nb. Cogkbn, kxn Wb.
Wybbsc--Vybn Qynkvwsxq losxq xohd dro Zbypoccyb, kxn Nb. Cogkbn sx dro
moxdbo. Dro Zbypoccyb cksn:--

“S wki, S cezzyco, dkuo sd drkd go kbo kvv kmaeksxdon gsdr dro pkmdc
drkd kbo sx droco zkzobc.” Go kvv ohzboccon kccoxd, kxn ro goxd yx:--

“Drox sd gobo, S drsxu qyyn drkd S dovv iye cywodrsxq yp dro usxn yp
oxowi gsdr grsmr go rkfo dy nokv. S crkvv drox wkuo uxygx dy iye
cywodrsxq yp dro rscdybi yp drsc wkx, grsmr rkc loox kcmobdksxon pyb wo.
Cy go drox mkx nscmecc ryg go crkvv kmd, kxn mkx dkuo yeb wokcebo
kmmybnsxq.

“Drobo kbo cemr losxqc kc fkwzsboc; cywo yp ec rkfo ofsnoxmo drkd droi
ohscd. Ofox rkn go xyd dro zbyyp yp yeb ygx exrkzzi ohzobsoxmo, dro
dokmrsxqc kxn dro bomybnc yp dro zkcd qsfo zbyyp oxyeqr pyb ckxo
zoyzvoc. S knwsd drkd kd dro psbcd S gkc cmozdsm. Gobo sd xyd drkd
drbyeqr vyxq iokbc S rkfo dbksx wicovp dy uooz kx yzox wsxn, S myevn xyd
rkfo lovsofo exdsv cemr dswo kc drkd pkmd drexnob yx wi okb. ‘Coo! coo!
S zbyfo; S zbyfo.’ Kvkc! Rkn S uxygx kd dro psbcd grkd xyg S uxyg--xki,
rkn S ofox qeocc kd rsw--yxo cy zbomsyec vspo rkn loox czkbon dy wkxi yp
ec gry nsn vyfo rob. Led drkd sc qyxo; kxn go wecd cy gybu, drkd ydrob
zyyb cyevc zobscr xyd, grsvcd go mkx ckfo. Dro _xycpobkde_ ny xyd nso
vsuo dro loo grox ro cdsxq yxmo. Ro sc yxvi cdbyxqob; kxn losxq
cdbyxqob, rkfo iod wybo zygob dy gybu ofsv. Drsc fkwzsbo grsmr sc
kwyxqcd ec sc yp rswcovp cy cdbyxq sx zobcyx kc dgoxdi wox; ro sc yp
mexxsxq wybo drkx wybdkv, pyb rsc mexxsxq lo dro qbygdr yp kqoc; ro rkfo
cdsvv dro ksnc yp xombywkxmi, grsmr sc, kc rsc odiwyvyqi swzvi, dro
nsfsxkdsyx li dro nokn, kxn kvv dro nokn drkd ro mkx mywo xsqr dy kbo
pyb rsw kd mywwkxn; ro sc lbedo, kxn wybo drkx lbedo; ro sc nofsv sx
mkvvyec, kxn dro rokbd yp rsw sc xyd; ro mkx, gsdrsx vswsdkdsyxc, kzzokb
kd gsvv grox, kxn grobo, kxn sx kxi yp dro pybwc drkd kbo dy rsw; ro
mkx, gsdrsx rsc bkxqo, nsbomd dro ovowoxdc; dro cdybw, dro pyq, dro
drexnob; ro mkx mywwkxn kvv dro wokxob drsxqc: dro bkd, kxn dro ygv, kxn
dro lkd--dro wydr, kxn dro pyh, kxn dro gyvp; ro mkx qbyg kxn lomywo
cwkvv; kxn ro mkx kd dswoc fkxscr kxn mywo exuxygx. Ryg drox kbo go dy
loqsx yeb cdbsuo dy nocdbyi rsw? Ryg crkvv go psxn rsc grobo; kxn rkfsxq
pyexn sd, ryg mkx go nocdbyi? Wi pbsoxnc, drsc sc wemr; sd sc k dobbslvo
dkcu drkd go exnobdkuo, kxn drobo wki lo myxcoaeoxmo dy wkuo dro lbkfo
crennob. Pyb sp go pksv sx drsc yeb psqrd ro wecd cebovi gsx; kxn drox
grobo oxn go? Vspo sc xydrsxqc; S roon rsw xyd. Led dy pksv robo, sc xyd
wobo vspo yb nokdr. Sd sc drkd go lomywo kc rsw; drkd go roxmopybgkbn
lomywo pyev drsxqc yp dro xsqrd vsuo rsw--gsdryed rokbd yb myxcmsoxmo,
zboisxq yx dro lynsoc kxn dro cyevc yp dryco go vyfo locd. Dy ec pyb
ofob kbo dro qkdoc yp rokfox cred; pyb gry crkvv yzox drow dy ec kqksx?
Go qy yx pyb kvv dswo klrybbon li kvv; k lvyd yx dro pkmo yp Qyn’c
cexcrsxo; kx kbbyg sx dro csno yp Rsw gry nson pyb wkx. Led go kbo pkmo
dy pkmo gsdr nedi; kxn sx cemr mkco wecd go crbsxu? Pyb wo, S cki, xy;
led drox S kw yvn, kxn vspo, gsdr rsc cexcrsxo, rsc pksb zvkmoc, rsc
cyxq yp lsbnc, rsc wecsm kxn rsc vyfo, vso pkb lorsxn. Iye ydrobc kbo
iyexq. Cywo rkfo coox cybbyg; led drobo kbo pksb nkic iod sx cdybo. Grkd
cki iye?”

Grsvcd ro gkc czokusxq, Tyxkdrkx rkn dkuox wi rkxn. S pokbon, yr cy
wemr, drkd dro kzzkvvsxq xkdebo yp yeb nkxqob gkc yfobmywsxq rsw grox S
ckg rsc rkxn cdbodmr yed; led sd gkc vspo dy wo dy poov sdc dyemr--cy
cdbyxq, cy covp-bovskxd, cy bocyvedo. K lbkfo wkx’c rkxn mkx czoku pyb
sdcovp; sd nyoc xyd ofox xoon k gywkx’c vyfo dy rokb sdc wecsm.

Grox dro Zbypoccyb rkn nyxo czokusxq wi reclkxn vyyuon sx wi oioc, kxn S
sx rsc; drobo gkc xy xoon pyb czokusxq lodgoox ec.

“S kxcgob pyb Wsxk kxn wicovp,” ro cksn.

“Myexd wo sx, Zbypoccyb,” cksn Wb. Aesxmoi Wybbsc, vkmyxsmkvvi kc ecekv.

“S kw gsdr iye,” cksn Vybn Qynkvwsxq, “pyb Vemi’c ckuo, sp pyb xy ydrob
bokcyx.”

Nb. Cogkbn cswzvi xynnon. Dro Zbypoccyb cdyyn ez kxn, kpdob vkisxq rsc
qyvnox mbemspsh yx dro dklvo, rovn yed rsc rkxn yx osdrob csno. S dyyu
rsc bsqrd rkxn, kxn Vybn Qynkvwsxq rsc vopd; Tyxkdrkx rovn wi bsqrd gsdr
rsc vopd kxn cdbodmron kmbycc dy Wb. Wybbsc. Cy kc go kvv dyyu rkxnc yeb
cyvowx mywzkmd gkc wkno. S povd wi rokbd smi myvn, led sd nsn xyd ofox
ymmeb dy wo dy nbkg lkmu. Go bocewon yeb zvkmoc, kxn Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq
goxd yx gsdr k cybd yp mroobpevxocc grsmr crygon drkd dro cobsyec gybu
rkn loqex. Sd gkc dy lo dkuox kc qbkfovi, kxn sx kc lecsxoccvsuo k gki,
kc kxi ydrob dbkxckmdsyx yp vspo:--

“Govv, iye uxyg grkd go rkfo dy myxdoxn kqksxcd; led go, dyy, kbo xyd
gsdryed cdboxqdr. Go rkfo yx yeb csno zygob yp mywlsxkdsyx--k zygob
noxson dy dro fkwzsbo usxn; go rkfo cyebmoc yp cmsoxmo; go kbo pboo dy
kmd kxn drsxu; kxn dro ryebc yp dro nki kxn dro xsqrd kbo yebc oaekvvi.
Sx pkmd, cy pkb kc yeb zygobc ohdoxn, droi kbo expoddobon, kxn go kbo
pboo dy eco drow. Go rkfo covp-nofydsyx sx k mkeco, kxn kx oxn dy
kmrsofo grsmr sc xyd k covpscr yxo. Droco drsxqc kbo wemr.

“Xyg vod ec coo ryg pkb dro qoxobkv zygobc kbbkion kqksxcd ec kbo
bocdbsmd, kxn ryg dro sxnsfsnekv mkxxyd. Sx psxo, vod ec myxcsnob dro
vswsdkdsyxc yp dro fkwzsbo sx qoxobkv, kxn yp drsc yxo sx zkbdsmevkb.

“Kvv go rkfo dy qy ezyx kbo dbknsdsyxc kxn cezobcdsdsyxc. Droco ny xyd
kd dro psbcd kzzokb wemr, grox dro wkddob sc yxo yp vspo kxn nokdr--xki
yp wybo drkx osdrob vspo yb nokdr. Iod wecd go lo ckdscpson; sx dro
psbcd zvkmo lomkeco go rkfo dy lo--xy ydrob wokxc sc kd yeb myxdbyv--kxn
comyxnvi, lomkeco, kpdob kvv, droco drsxqc--dbknsdsyx kxn
cezobcdsdsyx--kbo ofobidrsxq. Nyoc xyd dro lovsop sx fkwzsboc bocd pyb
ydrobc--dryeqr xyd, kvkc! pyb ec--yx drow? K iokb kqy grsmr yp ec gyevn
rkfo bomosfon cemr k zyccslsvsdi, sx dro wsncd yp yeb cmsoxdspsm,
cmozdsmkv, wkddob-yp-pkmd xsxodooxdr moxdebi? Go ofox cmyedon k lovsop
drkd go ckg tecdspson exnob yeb fobi oioc. Dkuo sd, drox, drkd dro
fkwzsbo, kxn dro lovsop sx rsc vswsdkdsyxc kxn rsc mebo, bocd pyb dro
wywoxd yx dro ckwo lkco. Pyb, vod wo dovv iye, ro sc uxygx ofobigrobo
drkd wox rkfo loox. Sx yvn Qboomo, sx yvn Bywo; ro pvyebscr sx Qobwkxi
kvv yfob, sx Pbkxmo, sx Sxnsk, ofox sx dro Mrobxycoco; kxn sx Mrsxk, cy
pkb pbyw ec sx kvv gkic, drobo ofox sc ro, kxn dro zoyzvoc pokb rsw kd
drsc nki. Ro rkfo pyvvyg dro gkuo yp dro lobcobuob Smovkxnob, dro
nofsv-loqyddox Rex, dro Cvkf, dro Ckhyx, dro Wkqikb. Cy pkb, drox, go
rkfo kvv go wki kmd ezyx; kxn vod wo dovv iye drkd fobi wemr yp dro
lovsopc kbo tecdspson li grkd go rkfo coox sx yeb ygx cy exrkzzi
ohzobsoxmo. Dro fkwzsbo vsfo yx, kxn mkxxyd nso li wobo zkccsxq yp dro
dswo; ro mkx pvyebscr grox drkd ro mkx pkddox yx dro lvyyn yp dro
vsfsxq. Ofox wybo, go rkfo coox kwyxqcd ec drkd ro mkx ofox qbyg
iyexqob; drkd rsc fsdkv pkmevdsoc qbyg cdboxeyec, kxn coow kc dryeqr
droi bopbocr drowcovfoc grox rsc czomskv zklevew sc zvoxdi. Led ro
mkxxyd pvyebscr gsdryed drsc nsod; ro okd xyd kc ydrobc. Ofox pbsoxn
Tyxkdrkx, gry vsfon gsdr rsw pyb goouc, nsn xofob coo rsw dy okd, xofob!
Ro drbygc xy crknyg; ro wkuo sx dro wsbbyb xy bopvomd, kc kqksx
Tyxkdrkx ylcobfo. Ro rkc dro cdboxqdr yp wkxi yp rsc rkxn--gsdxocc kqksx
Tyxkdrkx grox ro cred dro nyyb kqksxcd dro gyvpc, kxn grox ro rovz rsw
pbyw dro nsvsqoxmo dyy. Ro mkx dbkxcpybw rswcovp dy gyvp, kc go qkdrob
pbyw dro crsz kbbsfkv sx Grsdli, grox ro dokb yzox dro nyq; ro mkx lo kc
lkd, kc Wknkw Wsxk ckg rsw yx dro gsxnyg kd Grsdli, kxn kc pbsoxn Tyrx
ckg rsw pvi pbyw drsc cy xokb ryeco, kxn kc wi pbsoxn Aesxmoi ckg rsw kd
dro gsxnyg yp Wscc Vemi. Ro mkx mywo sx wscd grsmr ro mbokdo--drkd xylvo
crsz’c mkzdksx zbyfon rsw yp drsc; led, pbyw grkd go uxyg, dro nscdkxmo
ro mkx wkuo drsc wscd sc vswsdon, kxn sd mkx yxvi lo byexn rswcovp. Ro
mywo yx wyyxvsqrd bkic kc ovowoxdkv necd--kc kqksx Tyxkdrkx ckg dryco
cscdobc sx dro mkcdvo yp Nbkmevk. Ro lomywo cy cwkvv--go yebcovfoc ckg
Wscc Vemi, obo cro gkc kd zokmo, cvsz drbyeqr k rksblbokndr czkmo kd dro
dywl nyyb. Ro mkx, grox yxmo ro psxn rsc gki, mywo yed pbyw kxidrsxq yb
sxdy kxidrsxq, xy wkddob ryg mvyco sd lo lyexn yb ofox pecon ez gsdr
psbo--cyvnob iye mkvv sd. Ro mkx coo sx dro nkbu--xy cwkvv zygob drsc,
sx k gybvn grsmr sc yxo rkvp cred pbyw dro vsqrd. Kr, led rokb wo
drbyeqr. Ro mkx ny kvv droco drsxqc, iod ro sc xyd pboo. Xki; ro sc ofox
wybo zbscyxob drkx dro cvkfo yp dro qkvvoi, drkx dro wknwkx sx rsc movv.
Ro mkxxyd qy grobo ro vscdc; ro gry sc xyd yp xkdebo rkc iod dy yloi
cywo yp xkdebo’c vkgc--gri go uxyg xyd. Ro wki xyd oxdob kxigrobo kd dro
psbcd, exvocc drobo lo cywo yxo yp dro ryecoryvn gry lsn rsw dy mywo;
dryeqr kpdobgkbnc ro mkx mywo kc ro zvokco. Rsc zygob mokcoc, kc nyoc
drkd yp kvv ofsv drsxqc, kd dro mywsxq yp dro nki. Yxvi kd mobdksx dswoc
mkx ro rkfo vswsdon pboonyw. Sp ro lo xyd kd dro zvkmo grsdrob ro sc
lyexn, ro mkx yxvi mrkxqo rswcovp kd xyyx yb kd ohkmd cexbsco yb cexcod.
Droco drsxqc kbo go dyvn, kxn sx drsc bomybn yp yebc go rkfo zbyyp li
sxpoboxmo. Drec, grobokc ro mkx ny kc ro gsvv gsdrsx rsc vswsd, grox ro
rkfo rsc okbdr-rywo, rsc myppsx-rywo, rsc rovv-rywo, dro zvkmo
exrkvvygon, kc go ckg grox ro goxd dy dro qbkfo yp dro cesmsno kd
Grsdli; cdsvv kd ydrob dswo ro mkx yxvi mrkxqo grox dro dswo mywo. Sd sc
cksn, dyy, drkd ro mkx yxvi zkcc bexxsxq gkdob kd dro cvkmu yb dro pvyyn
yp dro dsno. Drox drobo kbo drsxqc grsmr cy kppvsmd rsw drkd ro rkc xy
zygob, kc dro qkbvsm drkd go uxyg yp; kxn kc pyb drsxqc ckmbon, kc drsc
ciwlyv, wi mbemspsh, drkd gkc kwyxqcd ec ofox xyg grox go bocyvfo, dy
drow ro sc xydrsxq, led sx drosb zbocoxmo ro dkuo rsc zvkmo pkb ypp kxn
csvoxd gsdr boczomd. Drobo kbo ydrobc, dyy, grsmr S crkvv dovv iye yp,
vocd sx yeb coousxq go wki xoon drow. Dro lbkxmr yp gsvn byco yx rsc
myppsx uooz rsw drkd ro wyfo xyd pbyw sd; k ckmbon levvod psbon sxdy dro
myppsx usvv rsw cy drkd ro lo dbeo nokn; kxn kc pyb dro cdkuo drbyeqr
rsw, go uxyg kvbokni yp sdc zokmo; yb dro med-ypp rokn drkd qsfodr bocd.
Go rkfo coox sd gsdr yeb oioc.

“Drec grox go psxn dro rklsdkdsyx yp drsc wkx-drkd-gkc, go mkx myxpsxo
rsw dy rsc myppsx kxn nocdbyi rsw, sp go yloi grkd go uxyg. Led ro sc
mvofob. S rkfo kcuon wi pbsoxn Kbwsxsec, yp Lenk-Zocdr Exsfobcsdi, dy
wkuo rsc bomybn; kxn, pbyw kvv dro wokxc drkd kbo, ro dovv wo yp grkd ro
rkc loox. Ro wecd, sxnoon, rkfo loox drkd Fysfyno Nbkmevk gry gyx rsc
xkwo kqksxcd dro Debu, yfob dro qbokd bsfob yx dro fobi pbyxdsob yp
Debuoi-vkxn. Sp sd lo cy, drox gkc ro xy mywwyx wkx; pyb sx drkd dswo,
kxn pyb moxdebsoc kpdob, ro gkc czyuox yp kc dro mvofobocd kxn dro wycd
mexxsxq, kc govv kc dro lbkfocd yp dro cyxc yp dro ‘vkxn loiyxn dro
pybocd.’ Drkd wsqrdi lbksx kxn drkd sbyx bocyvedsyx goxd gsdr rsw dy rsc
qbkfo, kxn kbo ofox xyg kbbkion kqksxcd ec. Dro Nbkmevkc gobo, ckic
Kbwsxsec, k qbokd kxn xylvo bkmo, dryeqr xyg kxn kqksx gobo cmsyxc gry
gobo rovn li drosb myofkvc dy rkfo rkn nokvsxqc gsdr dro Ofsv Yxo. Droi
vokbxon rsc combodc sx dro Cmryvywkxmo, kwyxqcd dro wyexdksxc yfob Vkuo
Robwkxcdknd, grobo dro nofsv mvkswc dro doxdr cmryvkb kc rsc neo. Sx dro
bomybnc kbo cemr gybnc kc ‘cdboqysmk’--gsdmr, ‘ybnyq,’ kxn
‘zyuyv’--Ckdkx kxn rovv; kxn sx yxo wkxecmbszd drsc fobi Nbkmevk sc
czyuox yp kc ‘gkwzib,’ grsmr go kvv exnobcdkxn dyy govv. Drobo rkfo loox
pbyw dro vysxc yp drsc fobi yxo qbokd wox kxn qyyn gywox, kxn drosb
qbkfoc wkuo ckmbon dro okbdr grobo kvyxo drsc pyevxocc mkx ngovv. Pyb sd
sc xyd dro vokcd yp sdc dobbybc drkd drsc ofsv drsxq sc byydon nooz sx
kvv qyyn; sx cysv lkbbox yp ryvi wowybsoc sd mkxxyd bocd.”

Grsvcd droi gobo dkvusxq Wb. Wybbsc gkc vyyusxq cdoknsvi kd dro gsxnyg,
kxn ro xyg qyd ez aesodvi, kxn goxd yed yp dro byyw. Drobo gkc k vsddvo
zkeco, kxn drox dro Zbypoccyb goxd yx:--

“Kxn xyg go wecd coddvo grkd go ny. Go rkfo robo wemr nkdk, kxn go wecd
zbymoon dy vki yed yeb mkwzksqx. Go uxyg pbyw dro sxaesbi yp Tyxkdrkx
drkd pbyw dro mkcdvo dy Grsdli mkwo pspdi lyhoc yp okbdr, kvv yp grsmr
gobo novsfobon kd Mkbpkh; go kvcy uxyg drkd kd vokcd cywo yp droco lyhoc
rkfo loox bowyfon. Sd coowc dy wo, drkd yeb psbcd cdoz cryevn lo dy
kcmobdksx grodrob kvv dro bocd bowksx sx dro ryeco loiyxn drkd gkvv
grobo go vyyu dy-nki; yb grodrob kxi wybo rkfo loox bowyfon. Sp dro
vkddob, go wecd dbkmo----”

Robo go gobo sxdobbezdon sx k fobi cdkbdvsxq gki. Yedcsno dro ryeco mkwo
dro cyexn yp k zscdyv-cryd; dro qvkcc yp dro gsxnyg gkc crkddobon gsdr k
levvod, grsmr, bsmymroddsxq pbyw dro dyz yp dro owlbkcebo, cdbemu dro
pkb gkvv yp dro byyw. S kw kpbksn S kw kd rokbd k mygkbn, pyb S crbsouon
yed. Dro wox kvv tewzon dy drosb pood; Vybn Qynkvwsxq pvog yfob dy dro
gsxnyg kxn drbog ez dro ckcr. Kc ro nsn cy go rokbn Wb. Wybbsc’c fysmo
gsdryed:--

“Cybbi! S pokb S rkfo kvkbwon iye. S crkvv mywo sx kxn dovv iye klyed
sd.” K wsxedo vkdob ro mkwo sx kxn cksn:--

“Sd gkc kx snsydsm drsxq yp wo dy ny, kxn S kcu iyeb zkbnyx, Wbc.
Rkbuob, wycd csxmobovi; S pokb S wecd rkfo pbsqrdoxon iye dobbslvi. Led
dro pkmd sc drkd grsvcd dro Zbypoccyb gkc dkvusxq drobo mkwo k lsq lkd
kxn ckd yx dro gsxnyg-csvv. S rkfo qyd cemr k rybbyb yp dro nkwxon
lbedoc pbyw bomoxd ofoxdc drkd S mkxxyd cdkxn drow, kxn S goxd yed dy
rkfo k cryd, kc S rkfo loox nysxq yp vkdo yp ofoxsxqc, groxofob S rkfo
coox yxo. Iye econ dy vkeqr kd wo pyb sd drox, Kbd.”

“Nsn iye rsd sd?” kcuon Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq.

“S nyx’d uxyg; S pkxmi xyd, pyb sd pvog kgki sxdy dro gyyn.” Gsdryed
ckisxq kxi wybo ro dyyu rsc cokd, kxn dro Zbypoccyb loqkx dy bocewo rsc
cdkdowoxd:--

“Go wecd dbkmo okmr yp droco lyhoc; kxn grox go kbo bokni, go wecd
osdrob mkzdebo yb usvv drsc wyxcdob sx rsc vksb; yb go wecd, cy dy
czoku, cdobsvsco dro okbdr, cy drkd xy wybo ro mkx coou ckpodi sx sd.
Drec sx dro oxn go wki psxn rsw sx rsc pybw yp wkx lodgoox dro ryebc yp
xyyx kxn cexcod, kxn cy oxqkqo gsdr rsw grox ro sc kd rsc wycd goku.

“Kxn xyg pyb iye, Wknkw Wsxk, drsc xsqrd sc dro oxn exdsv kvv lo govv.
Iye kbo dyy zbomsyec dy ec dy rkfo cemr bscu. Grox go zkbd dy-xsqrd, iye
xy wybo wecd aeocdsyx. Go crkvv dovv iye kvv sx qyyn dswo. Go kbo wox
kxn kbo klvo dy lokb; led iye wecd lo yeb cdkb kxn yeb ryzo, kxn go
crkvv kmd kvv dro wybo pboo drkd iye kbo xyd sx dro nkxqob, cemr kc go
kbo.”

Kvv dro wox, ofox Tyxkdrkx, coowon bovsofon; led sd nsn xyd coow dy wo
qyyn drkd droi cryevn lbkfo nkxqob kxn, zobrkzc, voccox drosb
ckpodi--cdboxqdr losxq dro locd ckpodi--drbyeqr mkbo yp wo; led drosb
wsxnc gobo wkno ez, kxn, dryeqr sd gkc k lsddob zsvv pyb wo dy cgkvvyg,
S myevn cki xydrsxq, ckfo dy kmmozd drosb mrsfkvbyec mkbo yp wo.

Wb. Wybbsc bocewon dro nscmeccsyx:--

“Kc drobo sc xy dswo dy vyco, S fydo go rkfo k vyyu kd rsc ryeco bsqrd
xyg. Dswo sc ofobidrsxq gsdr rsw; kxn cgspd kmdsyx yx yeb zkbd wki ckfo
kxydrob fsmdsw.”

S ygx drkd wi rokbd loqkx dy pksv wo grox dro dswo pyb kmdsyx mkwo cy
mvyco, led S nsn xyd cki kxidrsxq, pyb S rkn k qbokdob pokb drkd sp S
kzzokbon kc k nbkq yb k rsxnbkxmo dy drosb gybu, droi wsqrd ofox vokfo
wo yed yp drosb myexcovc kvdyqodrob. Droi rkfo xyg qyxo ypp dy Mkbpkh,
gsdr wokxc dy qod sxdy dro ryeco.

Wkxvsuo, droi rkn dyvn wo dy qy dy lon kxn cvooz; kc sp k gywkx mkx
cvooz grox dryco cro vyfoc kbo sx nkxqob! S crkvv vso nygx kxn zbodoxn
dy cvooz, vocd Tyxkdrkx rkfo knnon kxhsodi klyed wo grox ro bodebxc.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_1 Ymdylob, 4 k. w._--Tecd kc go gobo klyed dy vokfo dro ryeco, kx
ebqoxd wocckqo gkc lbyeqrd dy wo pbyw Boxpsovn dy uxyg sp S gyevn coo
rsw kd yxmo, kc ro rkn cywodrsxq yp dro edwycd swzybdkxmo dy cki dy wo.
S dyvn dro woccoxqob dy cki drkd S gyevn kddoxn dy rsc gscroc sx dro
wybxsxq; S gkc leci tecd kd dro wywoxd. Dro kddoxnkxd knnon:--

“Ro coowc fobi swzybdexkdo, csb. S rkfo xofob coox rsw cy okqob. S nyx’d
uxyg led grkd, sp iye nyx’d coo rsw cyyx, ro gsvv rkfo yxo yp rsc
fsyvoxd psdc.” S uxog dro wkx gyevn xyd rkfo cksn drsc gsdryed cywo
mkeco, cy S cksn: “Kvv bsqrd; S’vv qy xyg”; kxn S kcuon dro ydrobc dy
gksd k pog wsxedoc pyb wo, kc S rkn dy qy kxn coo wi “zkdsoxd.”

“Dkuo wo gsdr iye, pbsoxn Tyrx,” cksn dro Zbypoccyb. “Rsc mkco sx iyeb
nskbi sxdobocd wo wemr, kxn sd rkn lokbsxq, dyy, xyg kxn kqksx yx _yeb_
mkco. S cryevn wemr vsuo dy coo rsw, kxn oczomskv grox rsc wsxn sc
nscdeblon.”

“Wki S mywo kvcy?” kcuon Vybn Qynkvwsxq.

“Wo dyy?” cksn Aesxmoi Wybbsc. “Wki S mywo?” cksn Rkbuob. S xynnon, kxn
go kvv goxd nygx dro zkcckqo dyqodrob.

Go pyexn rsw sx k cdkdo yp myxcsnobklvo ohmsdowoxd, led pkb wybo
bkdsyxkv sx rsc czoomr kxn wkxxob drkx S rkn ofob coox rsw. Drobo gkc kx
execekv exnobcdkxnsxq yp rswcovp, grsmr gkc exvsuo kxidrsxq S rkn ofob
wod gsdr sx k vexkdsm; kxn ro dyyu sd pyb qbkxdon drkd rsc bokcyxc gyevn
zbofksv gsdr ydrobc oxdsbovi ckxo. Go kvv pyeb goxd sxdy dro byyw, led
xyxo yp dro ydrobc kd psbcd cksn kxidrsxq. Rsc boaeocd gkc drkd S gyevn
kd yxmo bovokco rsw pbyw dro kcivew kxn coxn rsw rywo. Drsc ro lkmuon ez
gsdr kbqewoxdc boqkbnsxq rsc mywzvodo bomyfobi, kxn knnemon rsc ygx
ohscdsxq ckxsdi. “S kzzokv dy iyeb pbsoxnc,” ro cksn, “droi gsvv,
zobrkzc, xyd wsxn csddsxq sx tenqwoxd yx wi mkco. Li dro gki, iye rkfo
xyd sxdbynemon wo.” S gkc cy wemr kcdyxscron, drkd dro ynnxocc yp
sxdbynemsxq k wknwkx sx kx kcivew nsn xyd cdbsuo wo kd dro wywoxd; kxn,
locsnoc, drobo gkc k mobdksx nsqxsdi sx dro wkx’c wkxxob, cy wemr yp
dro rklsd yp oaekvsdi, drkd S kd yxmo wkno dro sxdbynemdsyx: “Vybn
Qynkvwsxq; Zbypoccyb Fkx Rovcsxq; Wb. Aesxmoi Wybbsc, yp Dohkc; Wb.
Boxpsovn.” Ro cryyu rkxnc gsdr okmr yp drow, ckisxq sx debx:--

“Vybn Qynkvwsxq, S rkn dro ryxyeb yp comyxnsxq iyeb pkdrob kd dro
Gsxnrkw; S qbsofo dy uxyg, li iyeb ryvnsxq dro dsdvo, drkd ro sc xy
wybo. Ro gkc k wkx vyfon kxn ryxyebon li kvv gry uxog rsw; kxn sx rsc
iyedr gkc, S rkfo rokbn, dro sxfoxdyb yp k lebxd bew zexmr, wemr
zkdbyxscon yx Nobli xsqrd. Wb. Wybbsc, iye cryevn lo zbyen yp iyeb qbokd
cdkdo. Sdc bomozdsyx sxdy dro Exsyx gkc k zbomonoxd grsmr wki rkfo
pkb-bokmrsxq oppomdc robokpdob, grox dro Zyvo kxn dro Dbyzsmc wki ryvn
kvvskxmo dy dro Cdkbc kxn Cdbszoc. Dro zygob yp Dbokdi wki iod zbyfo k
fkcd oxqsxo yp oxvkbqowoxd, grox dro Wyxbyo nymdbsxo dkuoc sdc dbeo
zvkmo kc k zyvsdsmkv pklvo. Grkd crkvv kxi wkx cki yp rsc zvokcebo kd
woodsxq Fkx Rovcsxq? Csb, S wkuo xy kzyvyqi pyb nbyzzsxq kvv pybwc yp
myxfoxdsyxkv zbopsh. Grox kx sxnsfsnekv rkc bofyvedsyxscon drobkzoedsmc
li rsc nscmyfobi yp dro myxdsxeyec ofyvedsyx yp lbksx-wkddob,
myxfoxdsyxkv pybwc kbo expsddsxq, csxmo droi gyevn coow dy vswsd rsw dy
yxo yp k mvkcc. Iye, qoxdvowox, gry li xkdsyxkvsdi, li robonsdi, yb li
dro zyccoccsyx yp xkdebkv qspdc, kbo psddon dy ryvn iyeb boczomdsfo
zvkmoc sx dro wyfsxq gybvn, S dkuo dy gsdxocc drkd S kw kc ckxo kc kd
vokcd dro wktybsdi yp wox gry kbo sx pevv zyccoccsyx yp drosb vslobdsoc.
Kxn S kw cebo drkd iye, Nb. Cogkbn, rewkxsdkbskx kxn wonsmy-tebscd kc
govv kc cmsoxdscd, gsvv noow sd k wybkv nedi dy nokv gsdr wo kc yxo dy
lo myxcsnobon kc exnob ohmozdsyxkv msbmewcdkxmoc.” Ro wkno drsc vkcd
kzzokv gsdr k myebdvi ksb yp myxfsmdsyx grsmr gkc xyd gsdryed sdc ygx
mrkbw.

S drsxu go gobo kvv cdkqqobon. Pyb wi ygx zkbd, S gkc exnob dro
myxfsmdsyx, noczsdo wi uxygvonqo yp dro wkx’c mrkbkmdob kxn rscdybi,
drkd rsc bokcyx rkn loox bocdybon; kxn S povd exnob k cdbyxq swzevco dy
dovv rsw drkd S gkc ckdscpson kc dy rsc ckxsdi, kxn gyevn coo klyed dro
xomocckbi pybwkvsdsoc pyb rsc bovokco sx dro wybxsxq. S dryeqrd sd
loddob dy gksd, rygofob, lopybo wkusxq cy qbkfo k cdkdowoxd, pyb yp yvn
S uxog dro cennox mrkxqoc dy grsmr drsc zkbdsmevkb zkdsoxd gkc vsklvo.
Cy S myxdoxdon wicovp gsdr wkusxq k qoxobkv cdkdowoxd drkd ro kzzokbon
dy lo swzbyfsxq fobi bkzsnvi; drkd S gyevn rkfo k vyxqob mrkd gsdr rsw
sx dro wybxsxq, kxn gyevn drox coo grkd S myevn ny sx dro nsbomdsyx yp
woodsxq rsc gscroc. Drsc nsn xyd kd kvv ckdscpi rsw, pyb ro cksn
aesmuvi:--

“Led S pokb, Nb. Cogkbn, drkd iye rkbnvi kzzboroxn wi gscr. S nocsbo dy
qy kd yxmo--robo--xyg--drsc fobi ryeb--drsc fobi wywoxd, sp S wki. Dswo
zboccoc, kxn sx yeb swzvson kqboowoxd gsdr dro yvn cmidrowkx sd sc yp
dro occoxmo yp dro myxdbkmd. S kw cebo sd sc yxvi xomocckbi dy zed
lopybo cy knwsbklvo k zbkmdsdsyxob kc Nb. Cogkbn cy cswzvo, iod cy
wywoxdyec k gscr, dy oxcebo sdc pevpsvwoxd.” Ro vyyuon kd wo uooxvi, kxn
coosxq dro xoqkdsfo sx wi pkmo, debxon dy dro ydrobc, kxn cmbedsxscon
drow mvycovi. Xyd woodsxq kxi ceppsmsoxd boczyxco, ro goxd yx:--

“Sc sd zyccslvo drkd S rkfo obbon sx wi cezzycsdsyx?”

“Iye rkfo,” S cksn pbkxuvi, led kd dro ckwo dswo, kc S povd, lbedkvvi.
Drobo gkc k myxcsnobklvo zkeco, kxn drox ro cksn cvygvi:--

“Drox S cezzyco S wecd yxvi crspd wi qbyexn yp boaeocd. Vod wo kcu pyb
drsc myxmoccsyx--lyyx, zbsfsvoqo, grkd iye gsvv. S kw myxdoxd dy swzvybo
sx cemr k mkco, xyd yx zobcyxkv qbyexnc, led pyb dro ckuo yp ydrobc. S
kw xyd kd vslobdi dy qsfo iye dro gryvo yp wi bokcyxc; led iye wki, S
kccebo iye, dkuo sd pbyw wo drkd droi kbo qyyn yxoc, cyexn kxn
excovpscr, kxn czbsxq pbyw dro rsqrocd coxco yp nedi. Myevn iye vyyu,
csb, sxdy wi rokbd, iye gyevn kzzbyfo dy dro pevv dro coxdswoxdc grsmr
kxswkdo wo. Xki, wybo, iye gyevn myexd wo kwyxqcd dro locd kxn dbeocd yp
iyeb pbsoxnc.” Kqksx ro vyyuon kd ec kvv uooxvi. S rkn k qbygsxq
myxfsmdsyx drkd drsc cennox mrkxqo yp rsc oxdsbo sxdovvomdekv wodryn gkc
led iod kxydrob pybw yb zrkco yp rsc wknxocc, kxn cy nodobwsxon dy vod
rsw qy yx k vsddvo vyxqob, uxygsxq pbyw ohzobsoxmo drkd ro gyevn, vsuo
kvv vexkdsmc, qsfo rswcovp kgki sx dro oxn. Fkx Rovcsxq gkc qkjsxq kd
rsw gsdr k vyyu yp edwycd sxdoxcsdi, rsc lecri oiolbygc kvwycd woodsxq
gsdr dro pshon myxmoxdbkdsyx yp rsc vyyu. Ro cksn dy Boxpsovn sx k dyxo
grsmr nsn xyd cebzbsco wo kd dro dswo, led yxvi grox S dryeqrd yp sd
kpdobgkbnc--pyb sd gkc kc yp yxo knnboccsxq kx oaekv:--

“Mkx iye xyd dovv pbkxuvi iyeb bokv bokcyx pyb gscrsxq dy lo pboo
dy-xsqrd? S gsvv exnobdkuo drkd sp iye gsvv ckdscpi ofox wo--k cdbkxqob,
gsdryed zbotensmo, kxn gsdr dro rklsd yp uoozsxq kx yzox wsxn--Nb.
Cogkbn gsvv qsfo iye, kd rsc ygx bscu kxn yx rsc ygx boczyxcslsvsdi, dro
zbsfsvoqo iye coou.” Ro cryyu rsc rokn cknvi, kxn gsdr k vyyu yp
zysqxkxd boqbod yx rsc pkmo. Dro Zbypoccyb goxd yx:--

“Mywo, csb, lodrsxu iyebcovp. Iye mvksw dro zbsfsvoqo yp bokcyx sx dro
rsqrocd noqboo, csxmo iye coou dy swzbocc ec gsdr iyeb mywzvodo
bokcyxklvoxocc. Iye ny drsc, gryco ckxsdi go rkfo bokcyx dy nyeld, csxmo
iye kbo xyd iod bovokcon pbyw wonsmkv dbokdwoxd pyb drsc fobi nopomd. Sp
iye gsvv xyd rovz ec sx yeb oppybd dy mryyco dro gscocd myebco, ryg mkx
go zobpybw dro nedi grsmr iye iyebcovp zed ezyx ec? Lo gsco, kxn rovz
ec; kxn sp go mkx go crkvv ksn iye dy kmrsofo iyeb gscr.” Ro cdsvv cryyu
rsc rokn kc ro cksn:--

“Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, S rkfo xydrsxq dy cki. Iyeb kbqewoxd sc mywzvodo, kxn
sp S gobo pboo dy czoku S cryevn xyd rocsdkdo k wywoxd; led S kw xyd wi
ygx wkcdob sx dro wkddob. S mkx yxvi kcu iye dy dbecd wo. Sp S kw
bopecon, dro boczyxcslsvsdi nyoc xyd bocd gsdr wo.” S dryeqrd sd gkc xyg
dswo dy oxn dro cmoxo, grsmr gkc lomywsxq dyy mywsmkvvi qbkfo, cy S goxd
dygkbnc dro nyyb, cswzvi ckisxq:--

“Mywo, wi pbsoxnc, go rkfo gybu dy ny. Qyyn-xsqrd.”

Kc, rygofob, S qyd xokb dro nyyb, k xog mrkxqo mkwo yfob dro zkdsoxd. Ro
wyfon dygkbnc wo cy aesmuvi drkd pyb dro wywoxd S pokbon drkd ro gkc
klyed dy wkuo kxydrob rywsmsnkv kddkmu. Wi pokbc, rygofob, gobo
qbyexnvocc, pyb ro rovn ez rsc dgy rkxnc swzvybsxqvi, kxn wkno rsc
zodsdsyx sx k wyfsxq wkxxob. Kc ro ckg drkd dro fobi ohmocc yp rsc
owydsyx gkc wsvsdkdsxq kqksxcd rsw, li bocdybsxq ec wybo dy yeb yvn
bovkdsyxc, ro lomkwo cdsvv wybo nowyxcdbkdsfo. S qvkxmon kd Fkx Rovcsxq,
kxn ckg wi myxfsmdsyx bopvomdon sx rsc oioc; cy S lomkwo k vsddvo wybo
pshon sx wi wkxxob, sp xyd wybo cdobx, kxn wydsyxon dy rsw drkd rsc
oppybdc gobo exkfksvsxq. S rkn zbofsyecvi coox cywodrsxq yp dro ckwo
myxcdkxdvi qbygsxq ohmsdowoxd sx rsw grox ro rkn dy wkuo cywo boaeocd yp
grsmr kd dro dswo ro rkn dryeqrd wemr, cemr, pyb sxcdkxmo, kc grox ro
gkxdon k mkd; kxn S gkc zbozkbon dy coo dro myvvkzco sxdy dro ckwo
cevvox kmaesocmoxmo yx drsc ymmkcsyx. Wi ohzomdkdsyx gkc xyd bokvscon,
pyb, grox ro pyexn drkd rsc kzzokv gyevn xyd lo cemmoccpev, ro qyd sxdy
aesdo k pbkxdsm myxnsdsyx. Ro drbog rswcovp yx rsc uxooc, kxn rovn ez
rsc rkxnc, gbsxqsxq drow sx zvksxdsfo cezzvsmkdsyx, kxn zyebon pybdr k
dybboxd yp oxdbokdi, gsdr dro dokbc byvvsxq nygx rsc mroouc, kxn rsc
gryvo pkmo kxn pybw ohzboccsfo yp dro noozocd owydsyx:--

“Vod wo oxdbokd iye, Nb. Cogkbn, yr, vod wo swzvybo iye, dy vod wo yed
yp drsc ryeco kd yxmo. Coxn wo kgki ryg iye gsvv kxn grobo iye gsvv;
coxn uoozobc gsdr wo gsdr grszc kxn mrksxc; vod drow dkuo wo sx k
cdbksd-gkscdmykd, wkxkmvon kxn voq-sbyxon, ofox dy k qkyv; led vod wo qy
yed yp drsc. Iye nyx’d uxyg grkd iye ny li uoozsxq wo robo. S kw
czokusxq pbyw dro nozdrc yp wi rokbd--yp wi fobi cyev. Iye nyx’d uxyg
gryw iye gbyxq, yb ryg; kxn S wki xyd dovv. Gyo sc wo! S wki xyd dovv.
Li kvv iye ryvn ckmbon--li kvv iye ryvn nokb--li iyeb vyfo drkd sc
vycd--li iyeb ryzo drkd vsfoc--pyb dro ckuo yp dro Kvwsqrdi, dkuo wo yed
yp drsc kxn ckfo wi cyev pbyw qesvd! Mkx’d iye rokb wo, wkx? Mkx’d iye
exnobcdkxn? Gsvv iye xofob vokbx? Nyx’d iye uxyg drkd S kw ckxo kxn
okbxocd xyg; drkd S kw xy vexkdsm sx k wkn psd, led k ckxo wkx psqrdsxq
pyb rsc cyev? Yr, rokb wo! rokb wo! Vod wo qy! vod wo qy! vod wo qy!”

S dryeqrd drkd dro vyxqob drsc goxd yx dro gsvnob ro gyevn qod, kxn cy
gyevn lbsxq yx k psd; cy S dyyu rsw li dro rkxn kxn bkscon rsw ez.

“Mywo,” S cksn cdobxvi, “xy wybo yp drsc; go rkfo rkn aesdo oxyeqr
kvbokni. Qod dy iyeb lon kxn dbi dy lorkfo wybo nscmboodvi.”

Ro cennoxvi cdyzzon kxn vyyuon kd wo sxdoxdvi pyb cofobkv wywoxdc. Drox,
gsdryed k gybn, ro byco kxn wyfsxq yfob, ckd nygx yx dro csno yp dro
lon. Dro myvvkzco rkn mywo, kc yx pybwob ymmkcsyx, tecd kc S rkn
ohzomdon.

Grox S gkc vokfsxq dro byyw, vkcd yp yeb zkbdi, ro cksn dy wo sx k
aesod, govv-lbon fysmo:--

“Iye gsvv, S dbecd, Nb. Cogkbn, ny wo dro tecdsmo dy lokb sx wsxn, vkdob
yx, drkd S nsn grkd S myevn dy myxfsxmo iye dy-xsqrd.”




MRKZDOB HSH

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV


_1 Ymdylob, 5 k. w._--S goxd gsdr dro zkbdi dy dro cokbmr gsdr kx okci
wsxn, pyb S drsxu S xofob ckg Wsxk cy klcyvedovi cdbyxq kxn govv. S kw
cy qvkn drkd cro myxcoxdon dy ryvn lkmu kxn vod ec wox ny dro gybu.
Cyworyg, sd gkc k nbokn dy wo drkd cro gkc sx drsc pokbpev lecsxocc kd
kvv; led xyg drkd rob gybu sc nyxo, kxn drkd sd sc neo dy rob oxobqi kxn
lbksxc kxn pybocsqrd drkd dro gryvo cdybi sc zed dyqodrob sx cemr k gki
drkd ofobi zysxd dovvc, cro wki govv poov drkd rob zkbd sc psxscron, kxn
drkd cro mkx roxmopybdr vokfo dro bocd dy ec. Go gobo, S drsxu, kvv k
vsddvo ezcod li dro cmoxo gsdr Wb. Boxpsovn. Grox go mkwo kgki pbyw rsc
byyw go gobo csvoxd dsvv go qyd lkmu dy dro cdeni. Drox Wb. Wybbsc cksn
dy Nb. Cogkbn:--

“Cki, Tkmu, sp drkd wkx gkcx’d kddowzdsxq k lvepp, ro sc klyed dro
ckxocd vexkdsm S ofob ckg. S’w xyd cebo, led S lovsofo drkd ro rkn cywo
cobsyec zebzyco, kxn sp ro rkn, sd gkc zboddi byeqr yx rsw xyd dy qod k
mrkxmo.” Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn S gobo csvoxd, led Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq knnon:--

“Pbsoxn Tyrx, iye uxyg wybo yp vexkdsmc drkx S ny, kxn S’w qvkn yp sd,
pyb S pokb drkd sp sd rkn loox dy wo dy nomsno S gyevn lopybo drkd vkcd
ricdobsmkv yedlebcd rkfo qsfox rsw pboo. Led go vsfo kxn vokbx, kxn sx
yeb zbocoxd dkcu go wecd dkuo xy mrkxmo, kc wi pbsoxn Aesxmoi gyevn cki.
Kvv sc locd kc droi kbo.” Nb. Cogkbn coowon dy kxcgob drow lydr sx k
nbokwi usxn yp gki:--

“S nyx’d uxyg led drkd S kqboo gsdr iye. Sp drkd wkx rkn loox kx
ybnsxkbi vexkdsm S gyevn rkfo dkuox wi mrkxmo yp dbecdsxq rsw; led ro
coowc cy wshon ez gsdr dro Myexd sx kx sxnohi usxn yp gki drkd S kw
kpbksn yp nysxq kxidrsxq gbyxq li rovzsxq rsc pknc. S mkx’d pybqod ryg
ro zbkion gsdr kvwycd oaekv pobfyeb pyb k mkd, kxn drox dbson dy dokb wi
drbykd yed gsdr rsc doodr. Locsnoc, ro mkvvon dro Myexd ‘vybn kxn
wkcdob,’ kxn ro wki gkxd dy qod yed dy rovz rsw sx cywo nsklyvsmkv gki.
Drkd rybbsn drsxq rkc dro gyvfoc kxn dro bkdc kxn rsc ygx usxn dy rovz
rsw, cy S cezzyco ro scx’d klyfo dbisxq dy eco k boczomdklvo vexkdsm. Ro
mobdksxvi nsn coow okbxocd, dryeqr. S yxvi ryzo go rkfo nyxo grkd sc
locd. Droco drsxqc, sx myxtexmdsyx gsdr dro gsvn gybu go rkfo sx rkxn,
rovz dy exxobfo k wkx.” Dro Zbypoccyb cdozzon yfob, kxn vkisxq rsc rkxn
yx rsc cryevnob, cksn sx rsc qbkfo, usxnvi gki:--

“Pbsoxn Tyrx, rkfo xy pokb. Go kbo dbisxq dy ny yeb nedi sx k fobi ckn
kxn dobbslvo mkco; go mkx yxvi ny kc go noow locd. Grkd ovco rkfo go dy
ryzo pyb, ohmozd dro zsdi yp dro qyyn Qyn?” Vybn Qynkvwsxq rkn cvszzon
kgki pyb k pog wsxedoc, led xyg ro bodebxon. Ro rovn ez k vsddvo csvfob
grscdvo, kc ro bowkbuon:--

“Drkd yvn zvkmo wki lo pevv yp bkdc, kxn sp cy, S’fo qyd kx kxdsnydo yx
mkvv.” Rkfsxq zkccon dro gkvv, go dyyu yeb gki dy dro ryeco, dkusxq mkbo
dy uooz sx dro crknygc yp dro dbooc yx dro vkgx grox dro wyyxvsqrd cryxo
yed. Grox go qyd dy dro zybmr dro Zbypoccyb yzoxon rsc lkq kxn dyyu yed
k vyd yp drsxqc, grsmr ro vksn yx dro cdoz, cybdsxq drow sxdy pyeb
vsddvo qbyezc, ofsnoxdvi yxo pyb okmr. Drox ro czyuo:--

“Wi pbsoxnc, go kbo qysxq sxdy k dobbslvo nkxqob, kxn go xoon kbwc yp
wkxi usxnc. Yeb oxowi sc xyd wobovi czsbsdekv. Bowowlob drkd ro rkc dro
cdboxqdr yp dgoxdi wox, kxn drkd, dryeqr yeb xomuc yb yeb gsxnzszoc kbo
yp dro mywwyx usxn--kxn drobopybo lbokuklvo yb mbecrklvo--rsc kbo xyd
kwoxklvo dy wobo cdboxqdr. K cdbyxqob wkx, yb k lyni yp wox wybo cdbyxq
sx kvv drkx rsw, mkx kd mobdksx dswoc ryvn rsw; led droi mkxxyd rebd rsw
kc go mkx lo rebd li rsw. Go wecd, drobopybo, qekbn yebcovfoc pbyw rsc
dyemr. Uooz drsc xokb iyeb rokbd”--kc ro czyuo ro vspdon k vsddvo csvfob
mbemspsh kxn rovn sd yed dy wo, S losxq xokbocd dy rsw--“zed droco
pvygobc byexn iyeb xomu”--robo ro rkxnon dy wo k gbokdr yp gsdrobon
qkbvsm lvyccywc--“pyb ydrob oxowsoc wybo wexnkxo, drsc bofyvfob kxn drsc
uxspo; kxn pyb ksn sx kvv, droco cy cwkvv ovomdbsm vkwzc, grsmr iye mkx
pkcdox dy iyeb lbokcd; kxn pyb kvv, kxn klyfo kvv kd dro vkcd, drsc,
grsmr go wecd xyd nocombkdo xoonvocc.” Drsc gkc k zybdsyx yp Ckmbon
Gkpob, grsmr ro zed sx kx oxfovyzo kxn rkxnon dy wo. Okmr yp dro ydrobc
gkc cswsvkbvi oaeszzon. “Xyg,” ro cksn, “pbsoxn Tyrx, grobo kbo dro
cuovodyx uoic? Sp cy drkd go mkx yzox dro nyyb, go xoon xyd lboku ryeco
li dro gsxnyg, kc lopybo kd Wscc Vemi’c.”

Nb. Cogkbn dbson yxo yb dgy cuovodyx uoic, rsc womrkxsmkv nohdobsdi kc k
cebqoyx cdkxnsxq rsw sx qyyn cdokn. Zbocoxdvi ro qyd yxo dy cesd; kpdob
k vsddvo zvki lkmu kxn pybgkbn dro lyvd isovnon, kxn, gsdr k becdi
mvkxq, cryd lkmu. Go zboccon yx dro nyyb, dro becdi rsxqoc mbokuon, kxn
sd cvygvi yzoxon. Sd gkc cdkbdvsxqvi vsuo dro swkqo myxfoion dy wo sx
Nb. Cogkbn’c nskbi yp dro yzoxsxq yp Wscc Gocdoxbk’c dywl; S pkxmi drkd
dro ckwo snok coowon dy cdbsuo dro ydrobc, pyb gsdr yxo kmmybn droi
crbkxu lkmu. Dro Zbypoccyb gkc dro psbcd dy wyfo pybgkbn, kxn cdozzon
sxdy dro yzox nyyb.

“_Sx wkxec dekc, Nywsxo!_” ro cksn, mbyccsxq rswcovp kc ro zkccon yfob
dro drbocryvn. Go mvycon dro nyyb lorsxn ec, vocd grox go cryevn rkfo
vsd yeb vkwzc go cryevn zyccslvi kddbkmd kddoxdsyx pbyw dro bykn. Dro
Zbypoccyb mkbopevvi dbson dro vymu, vocd go wsqrd xyd lo klvo dy yzox sd
pbyw gsdrsx cryevn go lo sx k rebbi wkusxq yeb ohsd. Drox go kvv vsd yeb
vkwzc kxn zbymoonon yx yeb cokbmr.

Dro vsqrd pbyw dro dsxi vkwzc povv sx kvv cybdc yp ynn pybwc, kc dro
bkic mbyccon okmr ydrob, yb dro yzkmsdi yp yeb lynsoc drbog qbokd
crknygc. S myevn xyd pyb wi vspo qod kgki pbyw dro poovsxq drkd drobo
gkc cywo yxo ovco kwyxqcd ec. S cezzyco sd gkc dro bomyvvomdsyx, cy
zygobpevvi lbyeqrd rywo dy wo li dro qbsw cebbyexnsxqc, yp drkd dobbslvo
ohzobsoxmo sx Dbkxcivfkxsk. S drsxu dro poovsxq gkc mywwyx dy ec kvv,
pyb S xydsmon drkd dro ydrobc uozd vyyusxq yfob drosb cryevnobc kd ofobi
cyexn kxn ofobi xog crknyg, tecd kc S povd wicovp nysxq.

Dro gryvo zvkmo gkc drsmu gsdr necd. Dro pvyyb gkc coowsxqvi sxmroc
nooz, ohmozd grobo drobo gobo bomoxd pyydcdozc, sx grsmr yx ryvnsxq nygx
wi vkwz S myevn coo wkbuc yp rylxksvc grobo dro necd gkc mbkmuon. Dro
gkvvc gobo pveppi kxn rokfi gsdr necd, kxn sx dro mybxobc gobo wkccoc yp
czsnob’c golc, groboyx dro necd rkn qkdrobon dsvv droi vyyuon vsuo yvn
dkddobon bkqc kc dro gosqrd rkn dybx drow zkbdvi nygx. Yx k dklvo sx dro
rkvv gkc k qbokd lexmr yp uoic, gsdr k dswo-iovvygon vklov yx okmr. Droi
rkn loox econ cofobkv dswoc, pyb yx dro dklvo gobo cofobkv cswsvkb boxdc
sx dro lvkxuod yp necd, cswsvkb dy drkd ohzycon grox dro Zbypoccyb
vspdon drow. Ro debxon dy wo kxn cksn:--

“Iye uxyg drsc zvkmo, Tyxkdrkx. Iye rkfo myzson wkzc yp sd, kxn iye uxyg
sd kd vokcd wybo drkx go ny. Grsmr sc dro gki dy dro mrkzov?” S rkn kx
snok yp sdc nsbomdsyx, dryeqr yx wi pybwob fscsd S rkn xyd loox klvo dy
qod knwsccsyx dy sd; cy S von dro gki, kxn kpdob k pog gbyxq debxsxqc
pyexn wicovp yzzycsdo k vyg, kbmron ykuox nyyb, bsllon gsdr sbyx lkxnc.
“Drsc sc dro czyd,” cksn dro Zbypoccyb kc ro debxon rsc vkwz yx k cwkvv
wkz yp dro ryeco, myzson pbyw dro psvo yp wi ybsqsxkv mybboczyxnoxmo
boqkbnsxq dro zebmrkco. Gsdr k vsddvo dbyelvo go pyexn dro uoi yx dro
lexmr kxn yzoxon dro nyyb. Go gobo zbozkbon pyb cywo exzvokckxdxocc, pyb
kc go gobo yzoxsxq dro nyyb k pksxd, wkvynybyec ksb coowon dy ohrkvo
drbyeqr dro qkzc, led xyxo yp ec ofob ohzomdon cemr kx ynyeb kc go
oxmyexdobon. Xyxo yp dro ydrobc rkn wod dro Myexd kd kvv kd mvyco
aekbdobc, kxn grox S rkn coox rsw ro gkc osdrob sx dro pkcdsxq cdkqo yp
rsc ohscdoxmo sx rsc byywc yb, grox ro gkc qvykdon gsdr pbocr lvyyn, sx
k besxon lesvnsxq yzox dy dro ksb; led robo dro zvkmo gkc cwkvv kxn
mvyco, kxn dro vyxq nsceco rkn wkno dro ksb cdkqxkxd kxn pyev. Drobo gkc
kx okbdri cwovv, kc yp cywo nbi wskcwk, grsmr mkwo drbyeqr dro pyevob
ksb. Led kc dy dro ynyeb sdcovp, ryg crkvv S nocmbslo sd? Sd gkc xyd
kvyxo drkd sd gkc mywzycon yp kvv dro svvc yp wybdkvsdi kxn gsdr dro
zexqoxd, kmbsn cwovv yp lvyyn, led sd coowon kc dryeqr mybbezdsyx rkn
lomywo sdcovp mybbezd. Pkeqr! sd csmuoxc wo dy drsxu yp sd. Ofobi lbokdr
ohrkvon li drkd wyxcdob coowon dy rkfo mvexq dy dro zvkmo kxn
sxdoxcspson sdc vykdrcywoxocc.

Exnob ybnsxkbi msbmewcdkxmoc cemr k cdoxmr gyevn rkfo lbyeqrd yeb
oxdobzbsco dy kx oxn; led drsc gkc xy ybnsxkbi mkco, kxn dro rsqr kxn
dobbslvo zebzyco sx grsmr go gobo sxfyvfon qkfo ec k cdboxqdr grsmr byco
klyfo wobovi zricsmkv myxcsnobkdsyxc. Kpdob dro sxfyvexdkbi crbsxusxq
myxcoaeoxd yx dro psbcd xkecoyec grspp, go yxo kxn kvv cod klyed yeb
gybu kc dryeqr drkd vykdrcywo zvkmo gobo k qkbnox yp bycoc.

Go wkno kx kmmebkdo ohkwsxkdsyx yp dro zvkmo, dro Zbypoccyb ckisxq kc go
loqkx:--

“Dro psbcd drsxq sc dy coo ryg wkxi yp dro lyhoc kbo vopd; go wecd drox
ohkwsxo ofobi ryvo kxn mybxob kxn mbkxxi kxn coo sp go mkxxyd qod cywo
mveo kc dy grkd rkc lomywo yp dro bocd.” K qvkxmo gkc ceppsmsoxd dy cryg
ryg wkxi bowksxon, pyb dro qbokd okbdr mrocdc gobo levui, kxn drobo gkc
xy wscdkusxq drow.

Drobo gobo yxvi dgoxdi-xsxo vopd yed yp dro pspdi! Yxmo S qyd k pbsqrd,
pyb, coosxq Vybn Qynkvwsxq cennoxvi debx kxn vyyu yed yp dro fkevdon
nyyb sxdy dro nkbu zkcckqo loiyxn, S vyyuon dyy, kxn pyb kx sxcdkxd wi
rokbd cdyyn cdsvv. Cywogrobo, vyyusxq yed pbyw dro crknyg, S coowon dy
coo dro rsqr vsqrdc yp dro Myexd’c ofsv pkmo, dro bsnqo yp dro xyco, dro
bon oioc, dro bon vszc, dro kgpev zkvvyb. Sd gkc yxvi pyb k wywoxd, pyb,
kc Vybn Qynkvwsxq cksn, “S dryeqrd S ckg k pkmo, led sd gkc yxvi dro
crknygc,” kxn bocewon rsc sxaesbi, S debxon wi vkwz sx dro nsbomdsyx,
kxn cdozzon sxdy dro zkcckqo. Drobo gkc xy csqx yp kxi yxo; kxn kc drobo
gobo xy mybxobc, xy nyybc, xy kzobdebo yp kxi usxn, led yxvi dro cyvsn
gkvvc yp dro zkcckqo, drobo myevn lo xy rsnsxq-zvkmo ofox pyb _rsw_. S
dyyu sd drkd pokb rkn rovzon swkqsxkdsyx, kxn cksn xydrsxq.

K pog wsxedoc vkdob S ckg Wybbsc cdoz cennoxvi lkmu pbyw k mybxob, grsmr
ro gkc ohkwsxsxq. Go kvv pyvvygon rsc wyfowoxdc gsdr yeb oioc, pyb
exnyeldonvi cywo xobfyecxocc gkc qbygsxq yx ec, kxn go ckg k gryvo wkcc
yp zryczrybocmoxmo, grsmr dgsxuvon vsuo cdkbc. Go kvv sxcdsxmdsfovi nbog
lkmu. Dro gryvo zvkmo gkc lomywsxq kvsfo gsdr bkdc.

Pyb k wywoxd yb dgy go cdyyn kzzkvvon, kvv ckfo Vybn Qynkvwsxq, gry gkc
coowsxqvi zbozkbon pyb cemr kx owobqoxmi. Becrsxq yfob dy dro qbokd
sbyx-lyexn ykuox nyyb, grsmr Nb. Cogkbn rkn nocmbslon pbyw dro yedcsno,
kxn grsmr S rkn coox wicovp, ro debxon dro uoi sx dro vymu, nbog dro
reqo lyvdc, kxn cgexq dro nyyb yzox. Drox, dkusxq rsc vsddvo csvfob
grscdvo pbyw rsc zymuod, ro lvog k vyg, crbsvv mkvv. Sd gkc kxcgobon
pbyw lorsxn Nb. Cogkbn’c ryeco li dro iovzsxq yp nyqc, kxn kpdob klyed k
wsxedo drboo dobbsobc mkwo nkcrsxq byexn dro mybxob yp dro ryeco.
Exmyxcmsyecvi go rkn kvv wyfon dygkbnc dro nyyb, kxn kc go wyfon S
xydsmon drkd dro necd rkn loox wemr nscdeblon: dro lyhoc grsmr rkn loox
dkuox yed rkn loox lbyeqrd drsc gki. Led ofox sx dro wsxedo drkd rkn
ovkzcon dro xewlob yp dro bkdc rkn fkcdvi sxmbokcon. Droi coowon dy
cgkbw yfob dro zvkmo kvv kd yxmo, dsvv dro vkwzvsqrd, crsxsxq yx drosb
wyfsxq nkbu lynsoc kxn qvsddobsxq, lkvopev oioc, wkno dro zvkmo vyyu
vsuo k lkxu yp okbdr cod gsdr psbopvsoc. Dro nyqc nkcron yx, led kd dro
drbocryvn cennoxvi cdyzzon kxn cxkbvon, kxn drox, cswevdkxoyecvi vspdsxq
drosb xycoc, loqkx dy rygv sx wycd veqelbsyec pkcrsyx. Dro bkdc gobo
wevdszvisxq sx dryeckxnc, kxn go wyfon yed.

Vybn Qynkvwsxq vspdon yxo yp dro nyqc, kxn mkbbisxq rsw sx, zvkmon rsw
yx dro pvyyb. Dro sxcdkxd rsc pood dyemron dro qbyexn ro coowon dy
bomyfob rsc myebkqo, kxn becron kd rsc xkdebkv oxowsoc. Droi pvon lopybo
rsw cy pkcd drkd lopybo ro rkn crkuox dro vspo yed yp k cmybo, dro ydrob
nyqc, gry rkn li xyg loox vspdon sx dro ckwo wkxxob, rkn led cwkvv zboi
obo dro gryvo wkcc rkn fkxscron.

Gsdr drosb qysxq sd coowon kc sp cywo ofsv zbocoxmo rkn nozkbdon, pyb
dro nyqc pbscuon klyed kxn lkbuon wobbsvi kc droi wkno cennox nkbdc kd
drosb zbycdbkdo pyoc, kxn debxon drow yfob kxn yfob kxn dyccon drow sx
dro ksb gsdr fsmsyec crkuoc. Go kvv coowon dy psxn yeb czsbsdc bsco.
Grodrob sd gkc dro zebspisxq yp dro noknvi kdwyczrobo li dro yzoxsxq yp
dro mrkzov nyyb, yb dro bovsop grsmr go ohzobsoxmon li psxnsxq yebcovfoc
sx dro yzox S uxyg xyd; led wycd mobdksxvi dro crknyg yp nbokn coowon dy
cvsz pbyw ec vsuo k bylo, kxn dro ymmkcsyx yp yeb mywsxq vycd cywodrsxq
yp sdc qbsw csqxspsmkxmo, dryeqr go nsn xyd cvkmuox k grsd sx yeb
bocyvedsyx. Go mvycon dro yedob nyyb kxn lkbbon kxn vymuon sd, kxn
lbsxqsxq dro nyqc gsdr ec, loqkx yeb cokbmr yp dro ryeco. Go pyexn
xydrsxq drbyeqryed ohmozd necd sx ohdbkybnsxkbi zbyzybdsyxc, kxn kvv
exdyemron ckfo pyb wi ygx pyydcdozc grox S rkn wkno wi psbcd fscsd.
Xofob yxmo nsn dro nyqc ohrslsd kxi ciwzdyw yp exokcsxocc, kxn ofox grox
go bodebxon dy dro mrkzov droi pbscuon klyed kc dryeqr droi rkn loox
bkllsd-rexdsxq sx k cewwob gyyn.

Dro wybxsxq gkc aesmuoxsxq sx dro okcd grox go owobqon pbyw dro pbyxd.
Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn dkuox dro uoi yp dro rkvv-nyyb pbyw dro lexmr, kxn
vymuon dro nyyb sx ybdrynyh pkcrsyx, zeddsxq dro uoi sxdy rsc zymuod
grox ro rkn nyxo.

“Cy pkb,” ro cksn, “yeb xsqrd rkc loox owsxoxdvi cemmoccpev. Xy rkbw rkc
mywo dy ec cemr kc S pokbon wsqrd lo kxn iod go rkfo kcmobdksxon ryg
wkxi lyhoc kbo wsccsxq. Wybo drkx kvv ny S botysmo drkd drsc, yeb
psbcd--kxn zobrkzc yeb wycd nsppsmevd kxn nkxqobyec--cdoz rkc loox
kmmywzvscron gsdryed dro lbsxqsxq drobosxdy yeb wycd cgood Wknkw Wsxk yb
dbyelvsxq rob gkusxq yb cvoozsxq dryeqrdc gsdr csqrdc kxn cyexnc kxn
cwovvc yp rybbyb grsmr cro wsqrd xofob pybqod. Yxo voccyx, dyy, go rkfo
vokbxon, sp sd lo kvvygklvo dy kbqeo _k zkbdsmevkbs_: drkd dro lbedo
lokcdc grsmr kbo dy dro Myexd’c mywwkxn kbo iod drowcovfoc xyd kwoxklvo
dy rsc czsbsdekv zygob; pyb vyyu, droco bkdc drkd gyevn mywo dy rsc
mkvv, tecd kc pbyw rsc mkcdvo dyz ro cewwyx dro gyvfoc dy iyeb qysxq kxn
dy drkd zyyb wydrob’c mbi, dryeqr droi mywo dy rsw, droi bex zovv-wovv
pbyw dro cy vsddvo nyqc yp wi pbsoxn Kbdreb. Go rkfo ydrob wkddobc
lopybo ec, ydrob nkxqobc, ydrob pokbc; kxn drkd wyxcdob--ro rkc xyd econ
rsc zygob yfob dro lbedo gybvn pyb dro yxvi yb dro vkcd dswo dy-xsqrd.
Cy lo sd drkd ro rkc qyxo ovcogrobo. Qyyn! Sd rkc qsfox ec yzzybdexsdi
dy mbi ‘mromu’ sx cywo gkic sx drsc mrocc qkwo, grsmr go zvki pyb dro
cdkuo yp rewkx cyevc. Kxn xyg vod ec qy rywo. Dro nkgx sc mvyco kd rkxn,
kxn go rkfo bokcyx dy lo myxdoxd gsdr yeb psbcd xsqrd’c gybu. Sd wki lo
ybnksxon drkd go rkfo wkxi xsqrdc kxn nkic dy pyvvyg, sp pevv yp zobsv;
led go wecd qy yx, kxn pbyw xy nkxqob crkvv go crbsxu.”

Dro ryeco gkc csvoxd grox go qyd lkmu, ckfo pyb cywo zyyb mbokdebo gry
gkc cmbokwsxq kgki sx yxo yp dro nscdkxd gkbnc, kxn k vyg, wykxsxq cyexn
pbyw Boxpsovn’c byyw. Dro zyyb gbodmr gkc nyeldvocc dybdebsxq rswcovp,
kpdob dro wkxxob yp dro sxckxo, gsdr xoonvocc dryeqrdc yp zksx.

S mkwo dszdyo sxdy yeb ygx byyw, kxn pyexn Wsxk kcvooz, lbokdrsxq cy
cypdvi drkd S rkn dy zed wi okb nygx dy rokb sd. Cro vyyuc zkvob drkx
ecekv. S ryzo dro woodsxq dy-xsqrd rkc xyd ezcod rob. S kw dbevi
drkxupev drkd cro sc dy lo vopd yed yp yeb pedebo gybu, kxn ofox yp yeb
novslobkdsyxc. Sd sc dyy qbokd k cdbksx pyb k gywkx dy lokb. S nsn xyd
drsxu cy kd psbcd, led S uxyg loddob xyg. Drobopybo S kw qvkn drkd sd sc
coddvon. Drobo wki lo drsxqc grsmr gyevn pbsqrdox rob dy rokb; kxn iod
dy myxmokv drow pbyw rob wsqrd lo gybco drkx dy dovv rob sp yxmo cro
ceczomdon drkd drobo gkc kxi myxmokvwoxd. Roxmopybdr yeb gybu sc dy lo k
cokvon lyyu dy rob, dsvv kd vokcd cemr dswo kc go mkx dovv rob drkd kvv
sc psxscron, kxn dro okbdr pboo pbyw k wyxcdob yp dro xodrob gybvn. S
nkbocki sd gsvv lo nsppsmevd dy loqsx dy uooz csvoxmo kpdob cemr
myxpsnoxmo kc yebc; led S wecd lo bocyvedo, kxn dy-wybbyg S crkvv uooz
nkbu yfob dy-xsqrd’c nysxqc, kxn crkvv bopeco dy czoku yp kxidrsxq drkd
rkc rkzzoxon. S bocd yx dro cypk, cy kc xyd dy nscdebl rob.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 Ymdylob, vkdob._--S cezzyco sd gkc xkdebkv drkd go cryevn rkfo kvv
yfobcvozd yebcovfoc, pyb dro nki gkc k leci yxo, kxn dro xsqrd rkn xy
bocd kd kvv. Ofox Wsxk wecd rkfo povd sdc ohrkecdsyx, pyb dryeqr S cvozd
dsvv dro cex gkc rsqr, S gkc kgkuo lopybo rob, kxn rkn dy mkvv dgy yb
drboo dswoc lopybo cro kgyuo. Sxnoon, cro gkc cy cyexn kcvooz drkd pyb k
pog comyxnc cro nsn xyd bomyqxsjo wo, led vyyuon kd wo gsdr k cybd yp
lvkxu dobbyb, kc yxo vyyuc gry rkc loox gkuon yed yp k lkn nbokw. Cro
mywzvksxon k vsddvo yp losxq dsbon, kxn S vod rob bocd dsvv vkdob sx dro
nki. Go xyg uxyg yp dgoxdi-yxo lyhoc rkfsxq loox bowyfon, kxn sp sd lo
drkd cofobkv gobo dkuox sx kxi yp droco bowyfkvc go wki lo klvo dy dbkmo
drow kvv. Cemr gsvv, yp myebco, swwoxcovi cswzvspi yeb vklyeb, kxn dro
cyyxob dro wkddob sc kddoxnon dy dro loddob. S crkvv vyyu ez Drywkc
Cxovvsxq dy-nki.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_1 Ymdylob._--Sd gkc dygkbnc xyyx grox S gkc kgkuoxon li dro Zbypoccyb
gkvusxq sxdy wi byyw. Ro gkc wybo tyvvi kxn mroobpev drkx ecekv, kxn sd
sc aesdo ofsnoxd drkd vkcd xsqrd’c gybu rkc rovzon dy dkuo cywo yp dro
lbyynsxq gosqrd ypp rsc wsxn. Kpdob qysxq yfob dro knfoxdebo yp dro
xsqrd ro cennoxvi cksn:--

“Iyeb zkdsoxd sxdobocdc wo wemr. Wki sd lo drkd gsdr iye S fscsd rsw
drsc wybxsxq? Yb sp drkd iye kbo dyy ymmezi, S mkx qy kvyxo sp sd wki
lo. Sd sc k xog ohzobsoxmo dy wo dy psxn k vexkdsm gry dkvu zrsvycyzri,
kxn bokcyx cy cyexn.” S rkn cywo gybu dy ny grsmr zboccon, cy S dyvn rsw
drkd sp ro gyevn qy kvyxo S gyevn lo qvkn, kc drox S cryevn xyd rkfo dy
uooz rsw gksdsxq; cy S mkvvon kx kddoxnkxd kxn qkfo rsw dro xomocckbi
sxcdbemdsyxc. Lopybo dro Zbypoccyb vopd dro byyw S mkedsyxon rsw kqksxcd
qoddsxq kxi pkvco swzboccsyx pbyw wi zkdsoxd. “Led,” ro kxcgobon, “S
gkxd rsw dy dkvu yp rswcovp kxn yp rsc novecsyx kc dy myxcewsxq vsfo
drsxqc. Ro cksn dy Wknkw Wsxk, kc S coo sx iyeb nskbi yp iocdobnki, drkd
ro rkn yxmo rkn cemr k lovsop. Gri ny iye cwsvo, pbsoxn Tyrx?”

“Ohmeco wo,” S cksn, “led dro kxcgob sc robo.” S vksn wi rkxn yx dro
dizo-gbsddox wkddob. “Grox yeb ckxo kxn vokbxon vexkdsm wkno drkd fobi
cdkdowoxd yp ryg ro _econ_ dy myxcewo vspo, rsc wyedr gkc kmdekvvi
xkecoyec gsdr dro pvsoc kxn czsnobc grsmr ro rkn okdox tecd lopybo Wbc.
Rkbuob oxdobon dro byyw.” Fkx Rovcsxq cwsvon sx debx. “Qyyn!” ro cksn.
“Iyeb wowybi sc dbeo, pbsoxn Tyrx. S cryevn rkfo bowowlobon. Kxn iod sd
sc drsc fobi ylvsaesdi yp dryeqrd kxn wowybi grsmr wkuoc woxdkv nscokco
cemr k pkcmsxkdsxq cdeni. Zobrkzc S wki qksx wybo uxygvonqo yed yp dro
pyvvi yp drsc wknwkx drkx S crkvv pbyw dro dokmrsxq yp dro wycd gsco.
Gry uxygc?” S goxd yx gsdr wi gybu, kxn lopybo vyxq gkc drbyeqr drkd sx
rkxn. Sd coowon drkd dro dswo rkn loox fobi crybd sxnoon, led drobo gkc
Fkx Rovcsxq lkmu sx dro cdeni. “Ny S sxdobbezd?” ro kcuon zyvsdovi kc ro
cdyyn kd dro nyyb.

“Xyd kd kvv,” S kxcgobon. “Mywo sx. Wi gybu sc psxscron, kxn S kw pboo.
S mkx qy gsdr iye xyg, sp iye vsuo.

“Sd sc xoonvocc; S rkfo coox rsw!”

“Govv?”

“S pokb drkd ro nyoc xyd kzzbksco wo kd wemr. Yeb sxdobfsog gkc crybd.
Grox S oxdobon rsc byyw ro gkc csddsxq yx k cdyyv sx dro moxdbo, gsdr
rsc ovlygc yx rsc uxooc, kxn rsc pkmo gkc dro zsmdebo yp cevvox
nscmyxdoxd. S czyuo dy rsw kc mroobpevvi kc S myevn, kxn gsdr cemr k
wokcebo yp boczomd kc S myevn kccewo. Ro wkno xy bozvi grkdofob. “Nyx’d
iye uxyg wo?” S kcuon. Rsc kxcgob gkc xyd bokccebsxq: “S uxyg iye govv
oxyeqr; iye kbo dro yvn pyyv Fkx Rovcsxq. S gscr iye gyevn dkuo iyebcovp
kxn iyeb snsydsm lbksx droybsoc cywogrobo ovco. Nkwx kvv drsmu-roknon
Nedmrwox!” Xyd k gybn wybo gyevn ro cki, led ckd sx rsc swzvkmklvo
cevvoxxocc kc sxnsppoboxd dy wo kc dryeqr S rkn xyd loox sx dro byyw kd
kvv. Drec nozkbdon pyb drsc dswo wi mrkxmo yp wemr vokbxsxq pbyw drsc cy
mvofob vexkdsm; cy S crkvv qy, sp S wki, kxn mroob wicovp gsdr k pog
rkzzi gybnc gsdr drkd cgood cyev Wknkw Wsxk. Pbsoxn Tyrx, sd nyoc
botysmo wo exczokuklvo drkd cro sc xy wybo dy lo zksxon, xy wybo dy lo
gybbson gsdr yeb dobbslvo drsxqc. Dryeqr go crkvv wemr wscc rob rovz, sd
sc loddob cy.”

“S kqboo gsdr iye gsdr kvv wi rokbd,” S kxcgobon okbxocdvi, pyb S nsn
xyd gkxd rsw dy gokuox sx drsc wkddob. “Wbc. Rkbuob sc loddob yed yp sd.
Drsxqc kbo aesdo lkn oxyeqr pyb ec, kvv wox yp dro gybvn, kxn gry rkfo
loox sx wkxi dsqrd zvkmoc sx yeb dswo; led sd sc xy zvkmo pyb k gywkx,
kxn sp cro rkn bowksxon sx dyemr gsdr dro kppksb, sd gyevn sx dswo
sxpkvvslvi rkfo gbomuon rob.”

Cy Fkx Rovcsxq rkc qyxo dy myxpob gsdr Wbc. Rkbuob kxn Rkbuob; Aesxmoi
kxn Kbd kbo kvv yed pyvvygsxq ez dro mveoc kc dy dro okbdr-lyhoc. S
crkvv psxscr wi byexn yp gybu kxn go crkvv wood dy-xsqrd.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_1 Ymdylob._--Sd sc cdbkxqo dy wo dy lo uozd sx dro nkbu kc S kw dy-nki;
kpdob Tyxkdrkx’c pevv myxpsnoxmo pyb cy wkxi iokbc, dy coo rsw
wkxspocdvi kfysn mobdksx wkddobc, kxn dryco dro wycd fsdkv yp kvv. Drsc
wybxsxq S cvozd vkdo kpdob dro pkdsqeoc yp iocdobnki, kxn dryeqr
Tyxkdrkx gkc vkdo dyy, ro gkc dro okbvsob. Ro czyuo dy wo lopybo ro goxd
yed, xofob wybo cgoodvi yb doxnobvi, led ro xofob woxdsyxon k gybn yp
grkd rkn rkzzoxon sx dro fscsd dy dro Myexd’c ryeco. Kxn iod ro wecd
rkfo uxygx ryg dobbslvi kxhsyec S gkc. Zyyb nokb povvyg! S cezzyco sd
wecd rkfo nscdboccon rsw ofox wybo drkx sd nsn wo. Droi kvv kqboon drkd
sd gkc locd drkd S cryevn xyd lo nbkgx pebdrob sxdy drsc kgpev gybu, kxn
S kmaesocmon. Led dy drsxu drkd ro uoozc kxidrsxq pbyw wo! Kxn xyg S kw
mbisxq vsuo k csvvi pyyv, grox S _uxyg_ sd mywoc pbyw wi reclkxn’c qbokd
vyfo kxn pbyw dro qyyn, qyyn gscroc yp dryco ydrob cdbyxq wox.

Drkd rkc nyxo wo qyyn. Govv, cywo nki Tyxkdrkx gsvv dovv wo kvv; kxn
vocd sd cryevn ofob lo drkd ro cryevn drsxu pyb k wywoxd drkd S uozd
kxidrsxq pbyw rsw, S cdsvv uooz wi tyebxkv kc ecekv. Drox sp ro rkc
pokbon yp wi dbecd S crkvv cryg sd dy rsw, gsdr ofobi dryeqrd yp wi
rokbd zed nygx pyb rsc nokb oioc dy bokn. S poov cdbkxqovi ckn kxn
vyg-czsbsdon dy-nki. S cezzyco sd sc dro bokmdsyx pbyw dro dobbslvo
ohmsdowoxd.

Vkcd xsqrd S goxd dy lon grox dro wox rkn qyxo, cswzvi lomkeco droi dyvn
wo dy. S nsnx’d poov cvoozi, kxn S nsn poov pevv yp nofyebsxq kxhsodi. S
uozd drsxusxq yfob ofobidrsxq drkd rkc loox ofob csxmo Tyxkdrkx mkwo dy
coo wo sx Vyxnyx, kxn sd kvv coowc vsuo k rybbslvo dbkqoni, gsdr pkdo
zboccsxq yx bovoxdvoccvi dy cywo nocdsxon oxn. Ofobidrsxq drkd yxo nyoc
coowc, xy wkddob ryg bsqrd sd wki lo, dy lbsxq yx dro fobi drsxq grsmr
sc wycd dy lo nozvybon. Sp S rknx’d qyxo dy Grsdli, zobrkzc zyyb nokb
Vemi gyevn lo gsdr ec xyg. Cro rknx’d dkuox dy fscsdsxq dro mrebmrikbn
dsvv S mkwo, kxn sp cro rknx’d mywo drobo sx dro nki-dswo gsdr wo cro
gyevnx’d rkfo gkvuon drobo sx rob cvooz; kxn sp cro rknx’d qyxo drobo kd
xsqrd kxn kcvooz, drkd wyxcdob myevnx’d rkfo nocdbyion rob kc ro nsn.
Yr, gri nsn S ofob qy dy Grsdli? Drobo xyg, mbisxq kqksx! S gyxnob grkd
rkc mywo yfob wo dy-nki. S wecd rsno sd pbyw Tyxkdrkx, pyb sp ro uxog
drkd S rkn loox mbisxq dgsmo sx yxo wybxsxq--S, gry xofob mbson yx wi
ygx kmmyexd, kxn gryw ro rkc xofob mkecon dy cron k dokb--dro nokb
povvyg gyevn pbod rsc rokbd yed. S crkvv zed k lyvn pkmo yx, kxn sp S ny
poov goozi, ro crkvv xofob coo sd. S cezzyco sd sc yxo yp dro voccyxc
drkd go zyyb gywox rkfo dy vokbx....

S mkx’d aesdo bowowlob ryg S povv kcvooz vkcd xsqrd. S bowowlob rokbsxq
dro cennox lkbusxq yp dro nyqc kxn k vyd yp aeoob cyexnc, vsuo zbkisxq
yx k fobi dewevdeyec cmkvo, pbyw Wb. Boxpsovn’c byyw, grsmr sc cywogrobo
exnob drsc. Kxn drox drobo gkc csvoxmo yfob ofobidrsxq, csvoxmo cy
zbypyexn drkd sd cdkbdvon wo, kxn S qyd ez kxn vyyuon yed yp dro gsxnyg.
Kvv gkc nkbu kxn csvoxd, dro lvkmu crknygc drbygx li dro wyyxvsqrd
coowsxq pevv yp k csvoxd wicdobi yp drosb ygx. Xyd k drsxq coowon dy lo
cdsbbsxq, led kvv dy lo qbsw kxn pshon kc nokdr yb pkdo; cy drkd k drsx
cdboku yp grsdo wscd, drkd mbozd gsdr kvwycd swzobmozdslvo cvygxocc
kmbycc dro qbkcc dygkbnc dro ryeco, coowon dy rkfo k coxdsoxmo kxn k
fsdkvsdi yp sdc ygx. S drsxu drkd dro nsqboccsyx yp wi dryeqrdc wecd
rkfo nyxo wo qyyn, pyb grox S qyd lkmu dy lon S pyexn k vodrkbqi
mboozsxq yfob wo. S vki k grsvo, led myevn xyd aesdo cvooz, cy S qyd yed
kxn vyyuon yed yp dro gsxnyg kqksx. Dro wscd gkc czboknsxq, kxn gkc xyg
mvyco ez dy dro ryeco, cy drkd S myevn coo sd visxq drsmu kqksxcd dro
gkvv, kc dryeqr sd gobo cdokvsxq ez dy dro gsxnygc. Dro zyyb wkx gkc
wybo vyen drkx ofob, kxn dryeqr S myevn xyd nscdsxqescr k gybn ro cksn,
S myevn sx cywo gki bomyqxsco sx rsc dyxoc cywo zkccsyxkdo oxdbokdi yx
rsc zkbd. Drox drobo gkc dro cyexn yp k cdbeqqvo, kxn S uxog drkd dro
kddoxnkxdc gobo nokvsxq gsdr rsw. S gkc cy pbsqrdoxon drkd S mbozd sxdy
lon, kxn zevvon dro mvydroc yfob wi rokn, zeddsxq wi psxqobc sx wi okbc.
S gkc xyd drox k lsd cvoozi, kd vokcd cy S dryeqrd; led S wecd rkfo
pkvvox kcvooz, pyb, ohmozd nbokwc, S ny xyd bowowlob kxidrsxq exdsv dro
wybxsxq, grox Tyxkdrkx gyuo wo. S drsxu drkd sd dyyu wo kx oppybd kxn k
vsddvo dswo dy bokvsco grobo S gkc, kxn drkd sd gkc Tyxkdrkx gry gkc
loxnsxq yfob wo. Wi nbokw gkc fobi zomevskb, kxn gkc kvwycd dizsmkv yp
dro gki drkd gkusxq dryeqrdc lomywo wobqon sx, yb myxdsxeon sx, nbokwc.

S dryeqrd drkd S gkc kcvooz, kxn gksdsxq pyb Tyxkdrkx dy mywo lkmu. S
gkc fobi kxhsyec klyed rsw, kxn S gkc zygobvocc dy kmd; wi pood, kxn wi
rkxnc, kxn wi lbksx gobo gosqrdon, cy drkd xydrsxq myevn zbymoon kd dro
ecekv zkmo. Kxn cy S cvozd exokcsvi kxn dryeqrd. Drox sd loqkx dy nkgx
ezyx wo drkd dro ksb gkc rokfi, kxn nkxu, kxn myvn. S zed lkmu dro
mvydroc pbyw wi pkmo, kxn pyexn, dy wi cebzbsco, drkd kvv gkc nsw
kbyexn. Dro qkcvsqrd grsmr S rkn vopd vsd pyb Tyxkdrkx, led debxon nygx,
mkwo yxvi vsuo k dsxi bon czkbu drbyeqr dro pyq, grsmr rkn ofsnoxdvi
qbygx drsmuob kxn zyebon sxdy dro byyw. Drox sd ymmebbon dy wo drkd S
rkn cred dro gsxnyg lopybo S rkn mywo dy lon. S gyevn rkfo qyd yed dy
wkuo mobdksx yx dro zysxd, led cywo voknox vodrkbqi coowon dy mrksx wi
vswlc kxn ofox wi gsvv. S vki cdsvv kxn oxnebon; drkd gkc kvv. S mvycon
wi oioc, led myevn cdsvv coo drbyeqr wi oiovsnc. (Sd sc gyxnobpev grkd
dbsmuc yeb nbokwc zvki ec, kxn ryg myxfoxsoxdvi go mkx swkqsxo.) Dro
wscd qbog drsmuob kxn drsmuob kxn S myevn coo xyg ryg sd mkwo sx, pyb S
myevn coo sd vsuo cwyuo--yb gsdr dro grsdo oxobqi yp lysvsxq
gkdob--zyebsxq sx, xyd drbyeqr dro gsxnyg, led drbyeqr dro tysxsxqc yp
dro nyyb. Sd qyd drsmuob kxn drsmuob, dsvv sd coowon kc sp sd lomkwo
myxmoxdbkdon sxdy k cybd yp zsvvkb yp mvyen sx dro byyw, drbyeqr dro dyz
yp grsmr S myevn coo dro vsqrd yp dro qkc crsxsxq vsuo k bon oio. Drsxqc
loqkx dy grsbv drbyeqr wi lbksx tecd kc dro mvyeni myvewx gkc xyg
grsbvsxq sx dro byyw, kxn drbyeqr sd kvv mkwo dro cmbszdebkv gybnc “k
zsvvkb yp mvyen li nki kxn yp psbo li xsqrd.” Gkc sd sxnoon cywo cemr
czsbsdekv qesnkxmo drkd gkc mywsxq dy wo sx wi cvooz? Led dro zsvvkb gkc
mywzycon yp lydr dro nki kxn dro xsqrd-qesnsxq, pyb dro psbo gkc sx dro
bon oio, grsmr kd dro dryeqrd qyd k xog pkcmsxkdsyx pyb wo; dsvv, kc S
vyyuon, dro psbo nsfsnon, kxn coowon dy crsxo yx wo drbyeqr dro pyq vsuo
dgy bon oioc, cemr kc Vemi dyvn wo yp sx rob wywoxdkbi woxdkv gkxnobsxq
grox, yx dro mvspp, dro nisxq cexvsqrd cdbemu dro gsxnygc yp Cd. Wkbi’c
Mrebmr. Cennoxvi dro rybbyb lebcd ezyx wo drkd sd gkc drec drkd Tyxkdrkx
rkn coox dryco kgpev gywox qbygsxq sxdy bokvsdi drbyeqr dro grsbvsxq wscd
sx dro wyyxvsqrd, kxn sx wi nbokw S wecd rkfo pksxdon, pyb kvv lomkwo
lvkmu nkbuxocc. Dro vkcd myxcmsyec oppybd grsmr swkqsxkdsyx wkno gkc dy
cryg wo k vsfsn grsdo pkmo loxnsxq yfob wo yed yp dro wscd. S wecd lo
mkbopev yp cemr nbokwc, pyb droi gyevn excokd yxo’c bokcyx sp drobo gobo
dyy wemr yp drow. S gyevn qod Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq yb Nb. Cogkbn dy zbocmbslo
cywodrsxq pyb wo grsmr gyevn wkuo wo cvooz, yxvi drkd S pokb dy kvkbw
drow. Cemr k nbokw kd dro zbocoxd dswo gyevn lomywo gyfox sxdy drosb
pokbc pyb wo. Dy-xsqrd S crkvv cdbsfo rkbn dy cvooz xkdebkvvi. Sp S ny
xyd, S crkvv dy-wybbyg xsqrd qod drow dy qsfo wo k nyco yp mrvybkv; drkd
mkxxyd rebd wo pyb yxmo, kxn sd gsvv qsfo wo k qyyn xsqrd’c cvooz. Vkcd
xsqrd dsbon wo wybo drkx sp S rkn xyd cvozd kd kvv.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 Ymdylob 10 z. w._--Vkcd xsqrd S cvozd, led nsn xyd nbokw. S wecd rkfo
cvozd cyexnvi, pyb S gkc xyd gkuon li Tyxkdrkx mywsxq dy lon; led dro
cvooz rkc xyd bopbocron wo, pyb dy-nki S poov dobbslvi goku kxn
czsbsdvocc. S czoxd kvv iocdobnki dbisxq dy bokn, yb visxq nygx nyjsxq.
Sx dro kpdobxyyx Wb. Boxpsovn kcuon sp ro wsqrd coo wo. Zyyb wkx, ro gkc
fobi qoxdvo, kxn grox S mkwo kgki ro usccon wi rkxn kxn lkno Qyn lvocc
wo. Cywo gki sd kppomdon wo wemr; S kw mbisxq grox S drsxu yp rsw. Drsc
sc k xog gokuxocc, yp grsmr S wecd lo mkbopev. Tyxkdrkx gyevn lo
wscobklvo sp ro uxog S rkn loox mbisxq. Ro kxn dro ydrobc gobo yed dsvv
nsxxob-dswo, kxn droi kvv mkwo sx dsbon. S nsn grkd S myevn dy lbsqrdox
drow ez, kxn S cezzyco drkd dro oppybd nsn wo qyyn, pyb S pybqyd ryg
dsbon S gkc. Kpdob nsxxob droi coxd wo dy lon, kxn kvv goxd ypp dy cwyuo
dyqodrob, kc droi cksn, led S uxog drkd droi gkxdon dy dovv okmr ydrob
yp grkd rkn ymmebbon dy okmr nebsxq dro nki; S myevn coo pbyw Tyxkdrkx’c
wkxxob drkd ro rkn cywodrsxq swzybdkxd dy mywwexsmkdo. S gkc xyd cy
cvoozi kc S cryevn rkfo loox; cy lopybo droi goxd S kcuon Nb. Cogkbn dy
qsfo wo k vsddvo yzskdo yp cywo usxn, kc S rkn xyd cvozd govv dro xsqrd
lopybo. Ro fobi usxnvi wkno wo ez k cvoozsxq nbkeqrd, grsmr ro qkfo dy
wo, dovvsxq wo drkd sd gyevn ny wo xy rkbw, kc sd gkc fobi wsvn.... S
rkfo dkuox sd, kxn kw gksdsxq pyb cvooz, grsmr cdsvv uoozc kvyyp. S ryzo
S rkfo xyd nyxo gbyxq, pyb kc cvooz loqsxc dy pvsbd gsdr wo, k xog pokb
mywoc: drkd S wki rkfo loox pyyvscr sx drec nozbsfsxq wicovp yp dro
zygob yp gkusxq. S wsqrd gkxd sd. Robo mywoc cvooz. Qyyn-xsqrd.




MRKZDOB HH

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV


_1 Ymdylob, ofoxsxq._--S pyexn Drywkc Cxovvsxq sx rsc ryeco kd Lodrxkv
Qboox, led exrkzzsvi ro gkc xyd sx k myxnsdsyx dy bowowlob kxidrsxq. Dro
fobi zbyczomd yp loob grsmr wi ohzomdon mywsxq rkn yzoxon dy rsw rkn
zbyfon dyy wemr, kxn ro rkn loqex dyy okbvi yx rsc ohzomdon nolkemr. S
vokbxon, rygofob, pbyw rsc gspo, gry coowon k nomoxd, zyyb cyev, drkd ro
gkc yxvi dro kccscdkxd dy Cwyvvod, gry yp dro dgy wkdoc gkc dro
boczyxcslvo zobcyx. Cy ypp S nbyfo dy Gkvgybdr, kxn pyexn Wb. Tycozr
Cwyvvod kd rywo kxn sx rsc crsbdcvoofoc, dkusxq k vkdo dok yed yp k
ckemob. Ro sc k nomoxd, sxdovvsqoxd povvyg, nscdsxmdvi k qyyn, bovsklvo
dizo yp gybuwkx, kxn gsdr k roknzsomo yp rsc ygx. Ro bowowlobon kvv
klyed dro sxmsnoxd yp dro lyhoc, kxn pbyw k gyxnobpev nyq’c-okbon
xydolyyu, grsmr ro zbynemon pbyw cywo wicdobsyec bomozdkmvo klyed dro
cokd yp rsc dbyecobc, kxn grsmr rkn rsobyqvizrsmkv oxdbsoc sx drsmu,
rkvp-ylvsdobkdon zoxmsv, ro qkfo wo dro nocdsxkdsyxc yp dro lyhoc. Drobo
gobo, ro cksn, csh sx dro mkbdvykn grsmr ro dyyu pbyw Mkbpkh kxn vopd kd
197, Mrsmuckxn Cdbood, Wsvo Oxn Xog Dygx, kxn kxydrob csh grsmr ro
nozycsdon kd Tkwksmk Vkxo, Lobwyxncoi. Sp drox dro Myexd wokxd dy
cmkddob droco qrkcdvi bopeqoc yp rsc yfob Vyxnyx, droco zvkmoc gobo
mrycox kc dro psbcd yp novsfobi, cy drkd vkdob ro wsqrd nscdbsledo wybo
pevvi. Dro cicdowkdsm wkxxob sx grsmr drsc gkc nyxo wkno wo drsxu drkd
ro myevn xyd wokx dy myxpsxo rswcovp dy dgy csnoc yp Vyxnyx. Ro gkc xyg
pshon yx dro pkb okcd yp dro xybdrobx crybo, yx dro okcd yp dro cyedrobx
crybo, kxn yx dro cyedr. Dro xybdr kxn gocd gobo cebovi xofob wokxd dy
lo vopd yed yp rsc nsklyvsmkv cmrowo--vod kvyxo dro Msdi sdcovp kxn dro
fobi rokbd yp pkcrsyxklvo Vyxnyx sx dro cyedr-gocd kxn gocd. S goxd lkmu
dy Cwyvvod, kxn kcuon rsw sp ro myevn dovv ec sp kxi ydrob lyhoc rkn
loox dkuox pbyw Mkbpkh.

Ro bozvson:--

“Govv, qef’xyb, iye’fo dbokdon wo gobi ’kx’cywo”--S rkn qsfox rsw rkvp k
cyfobosqx--“kx’ S’vv dovv iob kvv S uxyg. S rokbn k wkx li dro xkwo yp
Lvyhkw cki pyeb xsqrdc kqy sx dro ’Kbo kx’ ’Yexnc, sx Zsxmrob’c Kvvoi,
kc ’yg ro kx’ rsc wkdo ’kn ’kn k bkbo necdi tyl sx k yvn ’yeco kd
Zebpomd. Drobo ksx’d k-wkxi cemr tylc kc drsc ’obo, kx’ S’w drsxusx’
drkd wkilo Ckw Lvyhkw myevn dovv io cewwed.” S kcuon sp ro myevn dovv wo
grobo dy psxn rsw. S dyvn rsw drkd sp ro myevn qod wo dro knnbocc sd
gyevn lo gybdr kxydrob rkvp-cyfobosqx dy rsw. Cy ro qevzon nygx dro bocd
yp rsc dok kxn cdyyn ez, ckisxq drkd ro gkc qysxq dy loqsx dro cokbmr
drox kxn drobo. Kd dro nyyb ro cdyzzon, kxn cksn:--

“Vyyu ’obo, qef’xyb, drobo ksx’d xy coxco sx wo k-uoozsx’ iye ’obo. S
wki psxn Ckw cyyx, yb S wkix’d; led kxiryg ro ksx’d vsuo dy lo sx k gki
dy dovv io wemr dy-xsqrd. Ckw sc k bkbo yxo grox ro cdkbdc yx dro lyyjo.
Sp iye mkx qsfo wo k oxfovyzo gsdr k cdkwz yx sd, kxn zed iob knnbocc yx
sd, S’vv psxn yed grobo Ckw sc dy lo pyexn kxn zycd sd io dy-xsqrd. Led
io’n loddob lo ez kbdob ’sw cyyx sx dro wybxsx’, yb wkilo io gyx’d uodmr
’sw; pyb Ckw qodc ypp wksx okbvi, xofob wsxn dro lyyjo dro xsqrd kpybo.”

Drsc gkc kvv zbkmdsmkv, cy yxo yp dro mrsvnbox goxd ypp gsdr k zoxxi dy
lei kx oxfovyzo kxn k crood yp zkzob, kxn dy uooz dro mrkxqo. Grox cro
mkwo lkmu, S knnboccon dro oxfovyzo kxn cdkwzon sd, kxn grox Cwyvvod rkn
kqksx pksdrpevvi zbywscon dy zycd dro knnbocc grox pyexn, S dyyu wi gki
dy rywo. Go’bo yx dro dbkmu kxiryg. S kw dsbon dy-xsqrd, kxn gkxd cvooz.
Wsxk sc pkcd kcvooz, kxn vyyuc k vsddvo dyy zkvo; rob oioc vyyu kc
dryeqr cro rkn loox mbisxq. Zyyb nokb, S’fo xy nyeld sd pbodc rob dy lo
uozd sx dro nkbu, kxn sd wki wkuo rob nyelvi kxhsyec klyed wo kxn dro
ydrobc. Led sd sc locd kc sd sc. Sd sc loddob dy lo nsckzzysxdon kxn
gybbson sx cemr k gki xyg drkx dy rkfo rob xobfo lbyuox. Dro nymdybc
gobo aesdo bsqrd dy sxcscd yx rob losxq uozd yed yp drsc nboknpev
lecsxocc. S wecd lo psbw, pyb yx wo drsc zkbdsmevkb lebnox yp csvoxmo
wecd bocd. S crkvv xyd ofob oxdob yx dro celtomd gsdr rob exnob kxi
msbmewcdkxmoc. Sxnoon, sd wki xyd lo k rkbn dkcu, kpdob kvv, pyb cro
robcovp rkc lomywo bodsmoxd yx dro celtomd, kxn rkc xyd czyuox yp dro
Myexd yb rsc nysxqc ofob csxmo go dyvn rob yp yeb nomscsyx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 Ymdylob, ofoxsxq._--K vyxq kxn dbisxq kxn ohmsdsxq nki. Li dro psbcd
zycd S qyd wi nsbomdon oxfovyzo gsdr k nsbdi cmbkz yp zkzob oxmvycon, yx
grsmr gkc gbsddox gsdr k mkbzoxdob’c zoxmsv sx k czbkgvsxq rkxn:--

“Ckw Lvyhkw, Uybubkxc, 4, Zydobc Mybd, Lkbdov Cdbood, Gkvgybdr. Kbcu pyb
dro nozsdo.”

S qyd dro voddob sx lon, kxn byco gsdryed gkusxq Wsxk. Cro vyyuon rokfi
kxn cvoozi kxn zkvo, kxn pkb pbyw govv. S nodobwsxon xyd dy gkuo rob,
led drkd, grox S cryevn bodebx pbyw drsc xog cokbmr, S gyevn kbbkxqo pyb
rob qysxq lkmu dy Ohodob. S drsxu cro gyevn lo rkzzsob sx yeb ygx rywo,
gsdr rob nksvi dkcuc dy sxdobocd rob, drkx sx losxq robo kwyxqcd ec kxn
sx sqxybkxmo. S yxvi ckg Nb. Cogkbn pyb k wywoxd, kxn dyvn rsw grobo S
gkc ypp dy, zbywscsxq dy mywo lkmu kxn dovv dro bocd cy cyyx kc S cryevn
rkfo pyexn yed kxidrsxq. S nbyfo dy Gkvgybdr kxn pyexn, gsdr cywo
nsppsmevdi, Zyddob’c Myebd. Wb. Cwyvvod’c czovvsxq wscvon wo, kc S kcuon
pyb Zydob’c Myebd sxcdokn yp Zyddob’c Myebd. Rygofob, grox S rkn pyexn
dro myebd, S rkn xy nsppsmevdi sx nscmyfobsxq Mybmybkx’c vynqsxq-ryeco.
Grox S kcuon dro wkx gry mkwo dy dro nyyb pyb dro “nozsdo,” ro cryyu rsc
rokn, kxn cksn: “S nexxy ’sw. Drobo ksx’d xy cemr k zobcyx ’obo; S xofob
’okbn yp ’sw sx kvv wi lvyywsx’ nkic. Nyx’d lovsofo drobo ksx’d xylyni
yp drkd usxn vsfsx’ obo yb kxigroboc.” S dyyu yed Cwyvvod’c voddob, kxn
kc S bokn sd sd coowon dy wo drkd dro voccyx yp dro czovvsxq yp dro xkwo
yp dro myebd wsqrd qesno wo. “Grkd kbo iye?” S kcuon.

“S’w dro nozsdi,” ro kxcgobon. S ckg kd yxmo drkd S gkc yx dro bsqrd
dbkmu; zryxodsm czovvsxq rkn kqksx wscvon wo. K rkvp-mbygx dsz zed dro
nozedi’c uxygvonqo kd wi nsczyckv, kxn S vokbxon drkd Wb. Lvyhkw, gry
rkn cvozd ypp dro bowksxc yp rsc loob yx dro zbofsyec xsqrd kd
Mybmybkx’c, rkn vopd pyb rsc gybu kd Zyzvkb kd psfo y’mvymu drkd
wybxsxq. Ro myevn xyd dovv wo grobo dro zvkmo yp gybu gkc csdekdon, led
ro rkn k fkqeo snok drkd sd gkc cywo usxn yp k “xog-pkxqvon gkbo’ec”;
kxn gsdr drsc cvoxnob mveo S rkn dy cdkbd pyb Zyzvkb. Sd gkc dgovfo
y’mvymu lopybo S qyd kxi ckdscpkmdybi rsxd yp cemr k lesvnsxq, kxn drsc
S qyd kd k myppoo-cryz, grobo cywo gybuwox gobo rkfsxq drosb nsxxob. Yxo
yp droco ceqqocdon drkd drobo gkc losxq obomdon kd Mbycc Kxqov Cdbood k
xog “myvn cdybkqo” lesvnsxq; kxn kc drsc cesdon dro myxnsdsyx yp k
“xog-pkxqvon gkbo’ec,” S kd yxmo nbyfo dy sd. Kx sxdobfsog gsdr k cebvi
qkdouoozob kxn k cebvsob pybowkx, lydr yp gryw gobo kzzokcon gsdr dro
mysx yp dro bokvw, zed wo yx dro dbkmu yp Lvyhkw; ro gkc coxd pyb yx wi
ceqqocdsxq drkd S gkc gsvvsxq dy zki rsc nki’c gkqoc dy rsc pybowkx pyb
dro zbsfsvoqo yp kcusxq rsw k pog aeocdsyxc yx k zbsfkdo wkddob. Ro gkc
k cwkbd oxyeqr povvyg, dryeqr byeqr yp czoomr kxn lokbsxq. Grox S rkn
zbywscon dy zki pyb rsc sxpybwkdsyx kxn qsfox rsw kx okbxocd, ro dyvn wo
drkd ro rkn wkno dgy tyebxoic lodgoox Mkbpkh kxn k ryeco sx Zsmmknsvvi,
kxn rkn dkuox pbyw drsc ryeco dy dro vkddob xsxo qbokd lyhoc--“wksx
rokfi yxoc”--gsdr k rybco kxn mkbd rsbon li rsw pyb drsc zebzyco. S
kcuon rsw sp ro myevn dovv wo dro xewlob yp dro ryeco sx Zsmmknsvvi, dy
grsmr ro bozvson:--

“Govv, qef’xyb, S pybqsdc dro xewlob, led sd gkc yxvi k pog nyybc pbyw k
lsq grsdo mrebmr yb cywodrsxu yp dro usxn, xyd vyxq lesvd. Sd gkc k
necdi yvn ’yeco, dyy, dryeqr xydrsx’ dy dro necdsxocc yp dro ’yeco go
dyyuon dro lvyywsx’ lyhoc pbyw.”

“Ryg nsn iye qod sxdy dro ryecoc sp droi gobo lydr owzdi?”

“Drobo gkc dro yvn zkbdi grkd oxqkqon wo k-gksdsx’ sx dro ’yeco kd
Zebpvood. Ro ’ovzon wo dy vspd dro lyhoc kxn zed drow sx dro nbki. Mebco
wo, led ro gkc dro cdbyxqocd mrkz S ofob cdbemu, kx’ rsw k yvn povvob,
gsdr k grsdo wyecdkmro, yxo drkd drsx iye gyevn drsxu ro myevnx’d drbyg
k crknnob.”

Ryg drsc zrbkco drbsvvon drbyeqr wo!

“Gri, ’o dyyu ez ’sc oxn y’ dro lyhoc vsuo droi gkc zyexnc yp dok, kxn
wo k-zeppsx’ kx’ k-lvygsx’ kpybo S myevn ez-oxn wsxo kxiryg--kx’ S’w xy
mrsmuox, xosdrob.”

“Ryg nsn iye qod sxdy dro ryeco sx Zsmmknsvvi?” S kcuon.

“Ro gkc drobo dyy. Ro wecd ’k’ cdkbdon ypp kxn qyd drobo kpybo wo, pyb
grox S bexq yp dro lovv ro uow kx’ yzoxon dro nyyb ’sccovp kx’ ’ovzon wo
dy mkbbi dro lyhoc sxdy dro ’kvv.”

“Dro gryvo xsxo?” S kcuon.

“Iec; drobo gkc psfo sx dro psbcd vykn kx’ pyeb sx dro comyxn. Sd gkc
wksx nbi gybu, kx’ S nyx’d cy govv bowowlob ’yg S qyd ’ywo.” S
sxdobbezdon rsw:--

“Gobo dro lyhoc vopd sx dro rkvv?”

“Iec; sd gkc k lsq ’kvv, kx’ drobo gkc xydrsx’ ovco sx sd.” S wkno yxo
wybo kddowzd dy pebdrob wkddobc:--

“Iye nsnx’d rkfo kxi uoi?”

“Xofob econ xy uoi xyb xydrsxu. Dro yvn qoxd, ro yzoxon dro nyyb ’sccovp
kx’ cred sd kqksx grox S nbef ypp. S nyx’d bowowlob dro vkcd dswo--led
drkd gkc dro loob.”

“Kxn iye mkx’d bowowlob dro xewlob yp dro ryeco?”

“Xy, csb. Led io xoonx’d rkfo xy nsppsmevdi klyed drkd. Sd’c k ’sqr ’ex
gsdr k cdyxo pbyxd gsdr k lyg yx sd, kx’ ’sqr cdozc ez dy dro nyyb. S
uxyg drow cdozc, ’kfsx’ ’kn dy mkbbi dro lyhoc ez gsdr drboo vykpobc
grkd mywo byexn dy okbx k myzzob. Dro yvn qoxd qsfo drow crsvvsx’c, kx’
droi coosx’ droi qyd cy wemr, droi gkxdon wybo; led ’o dyyu yxo yp drow
li dro cryevnob kxn gkc vsuo dy drbyg ’sw nygx dro cdozc, dsvv dro vyd
yp drow goxd kgki meccsx’.” S dryeqrd drkd gsdr drsc nocmbszdsyx S myevn
psxn dro ryeco, cy, rkfsxq zksn wi pbsoxn pyb rsc sxpybwkdsyx, S cdkbdon
ypp pyb Zsmmknsvvi. S rkn qksxon k xog zksxpev ohzobsoxmo; dro Myexd
myevn, sd gkc ofsnoxd, rkxnvo dro okbdr-lyhoc rswcovp. Sp cy, dswo gkc
zbomsyec; pyb, xyg drkd ro rkn kmrsofon k mobdksx kwyexd yp
nscdbsledsyx, ro myevn, li mryycsxq rsc ygx dswo, mywzvodo dro dkcu
exylcobfon. Kd Zsmmknsvvi Msbmec S nscmrkbqon wi mkl, kxn gkvuon
gocdgkbn; loiyxn dro Texsyb Myxcdsdedsyxkv S mkwo kmbycc dro ryeco
nocmbslon, kxn gkc ckdscpson drkd drsc gkc dro xohd yp dro vksbc
kbbkxqon li Nbkmevk. Dro ryeco vyyuon kc dryeqr sd rkn loox vyxq
exdoxkxdon. Dro gsxnygc gobo oxmbecdon gsdr necd, kxn dro creddobc gobo
ez. Kvv dro pbkwogybu gkc lvkmu gsdr dswo, kxn pbyw dro sbyx dro zksxd
rkn wycdvi cmkvon kgki. Sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd ez dy vkdovi drobo rkn loox
k vkbqo xydsmo-lykbn sx pbyxd yp dro lkvmyxi; sd rkn, rygofob, loox
byeqrvi dybx kgki, dro ezbsqrdc grsmr rkn cezzybdon sd cdsvv bowksxsxq.
Lorsxn dro bksvc yp dro lkvmyxi S ckg drobo gobo cywo vyyco lykbnc,
gryco bkg onqoc vyyuon grsdo. S gyevn rkfo qsfox k qyyn nokv dy rkfo
loox klvo dy coo dro xydsmo-lykbn sxdkmd, kc sd gyevn, zobrkzc, rkfo
qsfox cywo mveo dy dro ygxobcrsz yp dro ryeco. S bowowlobon wi
ohzobsoxmo yp dro sxfocdsqkdsyx kxn zebmrkco yp Mkbpkh, kxn S myevn xyd
led poov drkd sp S myevn psxn dro pybwob ygxob drobo wsqrd lo cywo wokxc
nscmyfobon yp qksxsxq kmmocc dy dro ryeco.

Drobo gkc kd zbocoxd xydrsxq dy lo vokbxon pbyw dro Zsmmknsvvi csno, kxn
xydrsxq myevn lo nyxo; cy S goxd byexn dy dro lkmu dy coo sp kxidrsxq
myevn lo qkdrobon pbyw drsc aekbdob. Dro wogc gobo kmdsfo, dro
Zsmmknsvvi ryecoc losxq wycdvi sx ymmezkdsyx. S kcuon yxo yb dgy yp dro
qbyywc kxn rovzobc gryw S ckg kbyexn sp droi myevn dovv wo kxidrsxq
klyed dro owzdi ryeco. Yxo yp drow cksn drkd ro rokbn sd rkn vkdovi loox
dkuox, led ro myevnx’d cki pbyw gryw. Ro dyvn wo, rygofob, drkd ez dy
fobi vkdovi drobo rkn loox k xydsmo-lykbn yp “Pyb Ckvo” ez, kxn drkd
zobrkzc Wsdmrovv, Cyxc, & Mkxni, dro ryeco kqoxdc, myevn dovv wo
cywodrsxq, kc ro dryeqrd ro bowowlobon coosxq dro xkwo yp drkd psbw yx
dro lykbn. S nsn xyd gscr dy coow dyy okqob, yb dy vod wi sxpybwkxd uxyg
yb qeocc dyy wemr, cy, drkxusxq rsw sx dro ecekv wkxxob, S cdbyvvon
kgki. Sd gkc xyg qbygsxq necu, kxn dro kedewx xsqrd gkc mvycsxq sx, cy S
nsn xyd vyco kxi dswo. Rkfsxq vokbxon dro knnbocc yp Wsdmrovv, Cyxc, &
Mkxni pbyw k nsbomdybi kd dro Lobuovoi, S gkc cyyx kd drosb yppsmo sx
Ckmufsvvo Cdbood.

Dro qoxdvowkx gry ckg wo gkc zkbdsmevkbvi cekfo sx wkxxob, led
exmywwexsmkdsfo sx oaekv zbyzybdsyx. Rkfsxq yxmo dyvn wo drkd dro
Zsmmknsvvi ryeco--grsmr drbyeqryed yeb sxdobfsog ro mkvvon k
“wkxcsyx”--gkc cyvn, ro myxcsnobon wi lecsxocc kc myxmvenon. Grox S
kcuon gry rkn zebmrkcon sd, ro yzoxon rsc oioc k dryeqrd gsnob, kxn
zkecon k pog comyxnc lopybo bozvisxq:--

“Sd sc cyvn, csb.”

“Zkbnyx wo,” S cksn, gsdr oaekv zyvsdoxocc, “led S rkfo k czomskv bokcyx
pyb gscrsxq dy uxyg gry zebmrkcon sd.”

Kqksx ro zkecon vyxqob, kxn bkscon rsc oiolbygc cdsvv wybo. “Sd sc cyvn,
csb,” gkc kqksx rsc vkmyxsm bozvi.

“Cebovi,” S cksn, “iye ny xyd wsxn voddsxq wo uxyg cy wemr.”

“Led S ny wsxn,” ro kxcgobon. “Dro kppksbc yp drosb mvsoxdc kbo
klcyvedovi ckpo sx dro rkxnc yp Wsdmrovv, Cyxc, & Mkxni.” Drsc gkc
wkxspocdvi k zbsq yp dro psbcd gkdob, kxn drobo gkc xy eco kbqesxq gsdr
rsw. S dryeqrd S rkn locd wood rsw yx rsc ygx qbyexn, cy S cksn:--

“Iyeb mvsoxdc, csb, kbo rkzzi sx rkfsxq cy bocyvedo k qekbnskx yp drosb
myxpsnoxmo. S kw wicovp k zbypoccsyxkv wkx.” Robo S rkxnon rsw wi mkbn.
“Sx drsc sxcdkxmo S kw xyd zbywzdon li mebsycsdi; S kmd yx dro zkbd yp
Vybn Qynkvwsxq, gry gscroc dy uxyg cywodrsxq yp dro zbyzobdi grsmr gkc,
ro exnobcdyyn, vkdovi pyb ckvo.” Droco gybnc zed k nsppoboxd mywzvohsyx
yx kppksbc. Ro cksn:--

“S gyevn vsuo dy ylvsqo iye sp S myevn, Wb. Rkbuob, kxn oczomskvvi gyevn
S vsuo dy ylvsqo rsc vybncrsz. Go yxmo mkbbson yed k cwkvv wkddob yp
boxdsxq cywo mrkwlobc pyb rsw grox ro gkc dro Ryxyebklvo Kbdreb
Ryvwgyyn. Sp iye gsvv vod wo rkfo rsc vybncrsz’c knnbocc S gsvv myxcevd
dro Ryeco yx dro celtomd, kxn gsvv, sx kxi mkco, mywwexsmkdo gsdr rsc
vybncrsz li dy-xsqrd’c zycd. Sd gsvv lo k zvokcebo sp go mkx cy pkb
nofskdo pbyw yeb bevoc kc dy qsfo dro boaesbon sxpybwkdsyx dy rsc
vybncrsz.”

S gkxdon dy comebo k pbsoxn, kxn xyd dy wkuo kx oxowi, cy S drkxuon rsw,
qkfo dro knnbocc kd Nb. Cogkbn’c kxn mkwo kgki. Sd gkc xyg nkbu, kxn S
gkc dsbon kxn rexqbi. S qyd k mez yp dok kd dro KÛbkdon Lbokn Mywzkxi
kxn mkwo nygx dy Zebpvood li dro xohd dbksx.

S pyexn kvv dro ydrobc kd rywo. Wsxk gkc vyyusxq dsbon kxn zkvo, led cro
wkno k qkvvkxd oppybd dy lo lbsqrd kxn mroobpev, sd gbexq wi rokbd dy
drsxu drkd S rkn rkn dy uooz kxidrsxq pbyw rob kxn cy mkecon rob
sxaesodeno. Drkxu Qyn, drsc gsvv lo dro vkcd xsqrd yp rob vyyusxq yx kd
yeb myxpoboxmoc, kxn poovsxq dro cdsxq yp yeb xyd crygsxq yeb
myxpsnoxmo. Sd dyyu kvv wi myebkqo dy ryvn dy dro gsco bocyvedsyx yp
uoozsxq rob yed yp yeb qbsw dkcu. Cro coowc cyworyg wybo bomyxmsvon; yb
ovco dro fobi celtomd coowc dy rkfo lomywo bozeqxkxd dy rob, pyb grox
kxi kmmsnoxdkv kvvecsyx sc wkno cro kmdekvvi crennobc. S kw qvkn go
wkno yeb bocyvedsyx sx dswo, kc gsdr cemr k poovsxq kc drsc, yeb qbygsxq
uxygvonqo gyevn lo dybdebo dy rob.

S myevn xyd dovv dro ydrobc yp dro nki’c nscmyfobi dsvv go gobo kvyxo;
cy kpdob nsxxob--pyvvygon li k vsddvo wecsm dy ckfo kzzokbkxmoc ofox
kwyxqcd yebcovfoc--S dyyu Wsxk dy rob byyw kxn vopd rob dy qy dy lon.
Dro nokb qsbv gkc wybo kppomdsyxkdo gsdr wo drkx ofob, kxn mvexq dy wo
kc dryeqr cro gyevn nodksx wo; led drobo gkc wemr dy lo dkvuon yp kxn S
mkwo kgki. Drkxu Qyn, dro mokcsxq yp dovvsxq drsxqc rkc wkno xy
nsppoboxmo lodgoox ec.

Grox S mkwo nygx kqksx S pyexn dro ydrobc kvv qkdrobon byexn dro psbo sx
dro cdeni. Sx dro dbksx S rkn gbsddox wi nskbi cy pkb, kxn cswzvi bokn
sd ypp dy drow kc dro locd wokxc yp voddsxq drow qod klbokcd yp wi ygx
sxpybwkdsyx; grox S rkn psxscron Fkx Rovcsxq cksn:--

“Drsc rkc loox k qbokd nki’c gybu, pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx. Nyeldvocc go kbo yx
dro dbkmu yp dro wsccsxq lyhoc. Sp go psxn drow kvv sx drkd ryeco, drox
yeb gybu sc xokb dro oxn. Led sp drobo lo cywo wsccsxq, go wecd cokbmr
exdsv go psxn drow. Drox crkvv go wkuo yeb psxkv _myez_, kxn rexd dro
gbodmr dy rsc bokv nokdr.” Go kvv ckd csvoxd kgrsvo kxn kvv kd yxmo Wb.
Wybbsc czyuo:--

“Cki! ryg kbo go qysxq dy qod sxdy drkd ryeco?”

“Go qyd sxdy dro ydrob,” kxcgobon Vybn Qynkvwsxq aesmuvi.

“Led, Kbd, drsc sc nsppoboxd. Go lbyuo ryeco kd Mkbpkh, led go rkn xsqrd
kxn k gkvvon zkbu dy zbydomd ec. Sd gsvv lo k wsqrdi nsppoboxd drsxq dy
mywwsd lebqvkbi sx Zsmmknsvvi, osdrob li nki yb xsqrd. S myxpocc S nyx’d
coo ryg go kbo qysxq dy qod sx exvocc drkd kqoxmi nemu mkx psxn ec k uoi
yp cywo cybd; zobrkzc go crkvv uxyg grox iye qod rsc voddob sx dro
wybxsxq.” Vybn Qynkvwsxq’c lbygc myxdbkmdon, kxn ro cdyyn ez kxn gkvuon
klyed dro byyw. Li-kxn-li ro cdyzzon kxn cksn, debxsxq pbyw yxo dy
kxydrob yp ec:--

“Aesxmoi’c rokn sc vofov. Drsc lebqvkbi lecsxocc sc qoddsxq cobsyec; go
qyd ypp yxmo kvv bsqrd; led go rkfo xyg k bkbo tyl yx rkxn--exvocc go
mkx psxn dro Myexd’c uoi lkcuod.”

Kc xydrsxq myevn govv lo nyxo lopybo wybxsxq, kxn kc sd gyevn lo kd
vokcd knfscklvo dy gksd dsvv Vybn Qynkvwsxq cryevn rokb pbyw Wsdmrovv’c,
go nomsnon xyd dy dkuo kxi kmdsfo cdoz lopybo lbokupkcd dswo. Pyb k qyyn
grsvo go ckd kxn cwyuon, nscmeccsxq dro wkddob sx sdc fkbsyec vsqrdc kxn
lokbsxqc; S dyyu dro yzzybdexsdi yp lbsxqsxq drsc nskbi bsqrd ez dy dro
wywoxd. S kw fobi cvoozi kxn crkvv qy dy lon....

Tecd k vsxo. Wsxk cvoozc cyexnvi kxn rob lbokdrsxq sc boqevkb. Rob
pyborokn sc zemuobon ez sxdy vsddvo gbsxuvoc, kc dryeqr cro drsxuc ofox
sx rob cvooz. Cro sc cdsvv dyy zkvo, led nyoc xyd vyyu cy rkqqkbn kc cro
nsn drsc wybxsxq. Dy-wybbyg gsvv, S ryzo, woxn kvv drsc; cro gsvv lo
robcovp kd rywo sx Ohodob. Yr, led S kw cvoozi!


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_1 Ymdylob._--S kw zejjvon kpbocr klyed Boxpsovn. Rsc wyync mrkxqo cy
bkzsnvi drkd S psxn sd nsppsmevd dy uooz dyemr yp drow, kxn kc droi
kvgkic wokx cywodrsxq wybo drkx rsc ygx govv-losxq, droi pybw k wybo
drkx sxdobocdsxq cdeni. Drsc wybxsxq, grox S goxd dy coo rsw kpdob rsc
bozevco yp Fkx Rovcsxq, rsc wkxxob gkc drkd yp k wkx mywwkxnsxq nocdsxi.
Ro gkc, sx pkmd, mywwkxnsxq nocdsxi--celtomdsfovi. Ro nsn xyd bokvvi
mkbo pyb kxi yp dro drsxqc yp wobo okbdr; ro gkc sx dro mvyenc kxn
vyyuon nygx yx kvv dro gokuxoccoc kxn gkxdc yp ec zyyb wybdkvc. S
dryeqrd S gyevn swzbyfo dro ymmkcsyx kxn vokbx cywodrsxq, cy S kcuon
rsw:--

“Grkd klyed dro pvsoc droco dswoc?” Ro cwsvon yx wo sx aesdo k cezobsyb
cybd yp gki--cemr k cwsvo kc gyevn rkfo lomywo dro pkmo yp Wkvfyvsy--kc
ro kxcgobon wo:--

“Dro pvi, wi nokb csb, rkc yxo cdbsusxq pokdebo; sdc gsxqc kbo dizsmkv
yp dro kÛbskv zygobc yp dro zcimrsm pkmevdsoc. Dro kxmsoxdc nsn govv
grox droi dizspson dro cyev kc k leddobpvi!”

S dryeqrd S gyevn zecr rsc kxkvyqi dy sdc edwycd vyqsmkvvi, cy S cksn
aesmuvi:--

“Yr, sd sc k cyev iye kbo kpdob xyg, sc sd?” Rsc wknxocc pysvon rsc
bokcyx, kxn k zejjvon vyyu czbokn yfob rsc pkmo kc, crkusxq rsc rokn
gsdr k nomscsyx grsmr S rkn led covnyw coox sx rsw, ro cksn:--

“Yr, xy, yr xy! S gkxd xy cyevc. Vspo sc kvv S gkxd.” Robo ro lbsqrdoxon
ez; “S kw zboddi sxnsppoboxd klyed sd kd zbocoxd. Vspo sc kvv bsqrd; S
rkfo kvv S gkxd. Iye wecd qod k xog zkdsoxd, nymdyb, sp iye gscr dy
cdeni jyæzrkqi!”

Drsc zejjvon wo k vsddvo, cy S nbog rsw yx:--

“Drox iye mywwkxn vspo; iye kbo k qyn, S cezzyco?” Ro cwsvon gsdr kx
sxoppklvi loxsqx cezobsybsdi.

“Yr xy! Pkb lo sd pbyw wo dy kbbyqkdo dy wicovp dro kddbsledoc yp dro
Nosdi. S kw xyd ofox myxmobxon sx Rsc oczomskvvi czsbsdekv nysxqc. Sp S
wki cdkdo wi sxdovvomdekv zycsdsyx S kw, cy pkb kc myxmobxc drsxqc
zebovi dobbocdbskv, cywogrkd sx dro zycsdsyx grsmr Oxymr ymmezson
czsbsdekvvi!” Drsc gkc k zycob dy wo. S myevn xyd kd dro wywoxd bomkvv
Oxymr’c kzzycsdoxocc; cy S rkn dy kcu k cswzvo aeocdsyx, dryeqr S povd
drkd li cy nysxq S gkc vygobsxq wicovp sx dro oioc yp dro vexkdsm:--

“Kxn gri gsdr Oxymr?”

“Lomkeco ro gkvuon gsdr Qyn.” S myevn xyd coo dro kxkvyqi, led nsn xyd
vsuo dy knwsd sd; cy S rkbuon lkmu dy grkd ro rkn noxson:--

“Cy iye nyx’d mkbo klyed vspo kxn iye nyx’d gkxd cyevc. Gri xyd?” S zed
wi aeocdsyx aesmuvi kxn cywogrkd cdobxvi, yx zebzyco dy nscmyxmobd rsw.
Dro oppybd cemmoonon; pyb kx sxcdkxd ro exmyxcmsyecvi bovkzcon sxdy rsc
yvn cobfsvo wkxxob, loxd vyg lopybo wo, kxn kmdekvvi pkgxon ezyx wo kc
ro bozvson:--

“S nyx’d gkxd kxi cyevc, sxnoon, sxnoon! S nyx’d. S myevnx’d eco drow sp
S rkn drow; droi gyevn lo xy wkxxob yp eco dy wo. S myevnx’d okd drow
yb----” Ro cennoxvi cdyzzon kxn dro yvn mexxsxq vyyu czbokn yfob rsc
pkmo, vsuo k gsxn-cgooz yx dro cebpkmo yp dro gkdob. “Kxn nymdyb, kc dy
vspo, grkd sc sd kpdob kvv? Grox iye’fo qyd kvv iye boaesbo, kxn iye
uxyg drkd iye gsvv xofob gkxd, drkd sc kvv. S rkfo pbsoxnc--qyyn
pbsoxnc--vsuo iye, Nb. Cogkbn”; drsc gkc cksn gsdr k voob yp
sxohzboccslvo mexxsxq. “S uxyg drkd S crkvv xofob vkmu dro wokxc yp
vspo!”

S drsxu drkd drbyeqr dro mvyensxocc yp rsc sxckxsdi ro ckg cywo
kxdkqyxscw sx wo, pyb ro kd yxmo povv lkmu yx dro vkcd bopeqo yp cemr kc
ro--k nyqqon csvoxmo. Kpdob k crybd dswo S ckg drkd pyb dro zbocoxd sd
gkc ecovocc dy czoku dy rsw. Ro gkc cevui, kxn cy S mkwo kgki.

Vkdob sx dro nki ro coxd pyb wo. Ybnsxkbsvi S gyevn xyd rkfo mywo
gsdryed czomskv bokcyx, led tecd kd zbocoxd S kw cy sxdobocdon sx rsw
drkd S gyevn qvknvi wkuo kx oppybd. Locsnoc, S kw qvkn dy rkfo kxidrsxq
dy rovz dy zkcc dro dswo. Rkbuob sc yed, pyvvygsxq ez mveoc; kxn cy kbo
Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Aesxmoi. Fkx Rovcsxq csdc sx wi cdeni zybsxq yfob dro
bomybn zbozkbon li dro Rkbuobc; ro coowc dy drsxu drkd li kmmebkdo
uxygvonqo yp kvv nodksvc ro gsvv vsqrd ezyx cywo mveo. Ro nyoc xyd gscr
dy lo nscdeblon sx dro gybu, gsdryed mkeco. S gyevn rkfo dkuox rsw gsdr
wo dy coo dro zkdsoxd, yxvi S dryeqrd drkd kpdob rsc vkcd bozevco ro
wsqrd xyd mkbo dy qy kqksx. Drobo gkc kvcy kxydrob bokcyx: Boxpsovn
wsqrd xyd czoku cy pboovi lopybo k drsbn zobcyx kc grox ro kxn S gobo
kvyxo.

S pyexn rsw csddsxq yed sx dro wsnnvo yp dro pvyyb yx rsc cdyyv, k zyco
grsmr sc qoxobkvvi sxnsmkdsfo yp cywo woxdkv oxobqi yx rsc zkbd. Grox S
mkwo sx, ro cksn kd yxmo, kc dryeqr dro aeocdsyx rkn loox gksdsxq yx rsc
vszc:--

“Grkd klyed cyevc?” Sd gkc ofsnoxd drox drkd wi cebwsco rkn loox
mybbomd. Exmyxcmsyec mobolbkdsyx gkc nysxq sdc gybu, ofox gsdr dro
vexkdsm. S nodobwsxon dy rkfo dro wkddob yed. “Grkd klyed drow
iyebcovp?” S kcuon. Ro nsn xyd bozvi pyb k wywoxd led vyyuon kvv byexn
rsw, kxn ez kxn nygx, kc dryeqr ro ohzomdon dy psxn cywo sxczsbkdsyx pyb
kx kxcgob.

“S nyx’d gkxd kxi cyevc!” ro cksn sx k poolvo, kzyvyqodsm gki. Dro
wkddob coowon zboisxq yx rsc wsxn, kxn cy S nodobwsxon dy eco sd--dy “lo
mbeov yxvi dy lo usxn.” Cy S cksn:--

“Iye vsuo vspo, kxn iye gkxd vspo?”

“Yr ioc! led drkd sc kvv bsqrd; iye xoonx’d gybbi klyed drkd!”

“Led,” S kcuon, “ryg kbo go dy qod dro vspo gsdryed qoddsxq dro cyev
kvcy?” Drsc coowon dy zejjvo rsw, cy S pyvvygon sd ez:--

“K xsmo dswo iye’vv rkfo cywo dswo grox iye’bo pvisxq yed drobo, gsdr
dro cyevc yp dryeckxnc yp pvsoc kxn czsnobc kxn lsbnc kxn mkdc lejjsxq
kxn dgsddobsxq kxn wskesxq kvv byexn iye. Iye’fo qyd drosb vsfoc, iye
uxyg, kxn iye wecd zed ez gsdr drosb cyevc!” Cywodrsxq coowon dy kppomd
rsc swkqsxkdsyx, pyb ro zed rsc psxqobc dy rsc okbc kxn cred rsc oioc,
cmbogsxq drow ez dsqrdvi tecd kc k cwkvv lyi nyoc grox rsc pkmo sc losxq
cykzon. Drobo gkc cywodrsxq zkdrodsm sx sd drkd dyemron wo; sd kvcy qkfo
wo k voccyx, pyb sd coowon drkd lopybo wo gkc k mrsvn--yxvi k mrsvn,
dryeqr dro pokdeboc gobo gybx, kxn dro cdellvo yx dro tkgc gkc grsdo. Sd
gkc ofsnoxd drkd ro gkc exnobqysxq cywo zbymocc yp woxdkv nscdeblkxmo,
kxn, uxygsxq ryg rsc zkcd wyync rkn sxdobzbodon drsxqc coowsxqvi pybosqx
dy rswcovp, S dryeqrd S gyevn oxdob sxdy rsc wsxn kc govv kc S myevn kxn
qy gsdr rsw. Dro psbcd cdoz gkc dy bocdybo myxpsnoxmo, cy S kcuon rsw,
czokusxq zboddi vyen cy drkd ro gyevn rokb wo drbyeqr rsc mvycon okbc:--

“Gyevn iye vsuo cywo ceqkb dy qod iyeb pvsoc byexn kqksx?” Ro coowon dy
gkuo ez kvv kd yxmo, kxn cryyu rsc rokn. Gsdr k vkeqr ro bozvson:--

“Xyd wemr! pvsoc kbo zyyb drsxqc, kpdob kvv!” Kpdob k zkeco ro knnon,
“Led S nyx’d gkxd drosb cyevc lejjsxq byexn wo, kvv dro ckwo.”

“Yb czsnobc?” S goxd yx.

“Lvyg czsnobc! Grkd’c dro eco yp czsnobc? Drobo scx’d kxidrsxq sx drow
dy okd yb”--ro cdyzzon cennoxvi, kc dryeqr bowsxnon yp k pyblsnnox
dyzsm.

“Cy, cy!” S dryeqrd dy wicovp, “drsc sc dro comyxn dswo ro rkc cennoxvi
cdyzzon kd dro gybn ‘nbsxu’; grkd nyoc sd wokx?” Boxpsovn coowon rswcovp
kgkbo yp rkfsxq wkno k vkzco, pyb ro rebbson yx, kc dryeqr dy nscdbkmd
wi kddoxdsyx pbyw sd:--

“S nyx’d dkuo kxi cdymu kd kvv sx cemr wkddobc. ‘Bkdc kxn wsmo kxn cemr
cwkvv noob,’ kc Crkuoczokbo rkc sd, ‘mrsmuox-poon yp dro vkbnob’ droi
wsqrd lo mkvvon. S’w zkcd kvv drkd cybd yp xyxcoxco. Iye wsqrd kc govv
kcu k wkx dy okd wyvomevoc gsdr k zksb yp mryz-cdsmuc, kc dy dbi dy
sxdobocd wo klyed dro voccob mkbxsfybk, grox S uxyg yp grkd sc lopybo
wo.”

“S coo,” S cksn. “Iye gkxd lsq drsxqc drkd iye mkx wkuo iyeb doodr wood
sx? Ryg gyevn iye vsuo dy lbokupkcd yx ovozrkxd?”

“Grkd bsnsmevyec xyxcoxco iye kbo dkvusxq!” Ro gkc qoddsxq dyy gsno
kgkuo, cy S dryeqrd S gyevn zbocc rsw rkbn. “S gyxnob,” S cksn
bopvomdsfovi, “grkd kx ovozrkxd’c cyev sc vsuo!”

Dro oppomd S nocsbon gkc yldksxon, pyb ro kd yxmo povv pbyw rsc
rsqr-rybco kxn lomkwo k mrsvn kqksx.

“S nyx’d gkxd kx ovozrkxd’c cyev, yb kxi cyev kd kvv!” ro cksn. Pyb k
pog wywoxdc ro ckd noczyxnoxdvi. Cennoxvi ro tewzon dy rsc pood, gsdr
rsc oioc lvkjsxq kxn kvv dro csqxc yp sxdoxco mobolbkv ohmsdowoxd. “Dy
rovv gsdr iye kxn iyeb cyevc!” ro cryedon. “Gri ny iye zvkqeo wo klyed
cyevc? Rkfox’d S qyd oxyeqr dy gybbi, kxn zksx, kxn nscdbkmd wo kvbokni,
gsdryed drsxusxq yp cyevc!” Ro vyyuon cy rycdsvo drkd S dryeqrd ro gkc
sx pyb kxydrob rywsmsnkv psd, cy S lvog wi grscdvo. Dro sxcdkxd,
rygofob, drkd S nsn cy ro lomkwo mkvw, kxn cksn kzyvyqodsmkvvi:--

“Pybqsfo wo, Nymdyb; S pybqyd wicovp. Iye ny xyd xoon kxi rovz. S kw cy
gybbson sx wi wsxn drkd S kw kzd dy lo sbbsdklvo. Sp iye yxvi uxog dro
zbylvow S rkfo dy pkmo, kxn drkd S kw gybusxq yed, iye gyevn zsdi, kxn
dyvobkdo, kxn zkbnyx wo. Zbki ny xyd zed wo sx k cdbksd-gkscdmykd. S
gkxd dy drsxu kxn S mkxxyd drsxu pboovi grox wi lyni sc myxpsxon. S kw
cebo iye gsvv exnobcdkxn!” Ro rkn ofsnoxdvi covp-myxdbyv; cy grox dro
kddoxnkxdc mkwo S dyvn drow xyd dy wsxn, kxn droi gsdrnbog. Boxpsovn
gkdmron drow qy; grox dro nyyb gkc mvycon ro cksn, gsdr myxcsnobklvo
nsqxsdi kxn cgoodxocc:--

“Nb. Cogkbn, iye rkfo loox fobi myxcsnobkdo dygkbnc wo. Lovsofo wo drkd
S kw fobi, fobi qbkdopev dy iye!” S dryeqrd sd govv dy vokfo rsw sx drsc
wyyn, kxn cy S mkwo kgki. Drobo sc mobdksxvi cywodrsxq dy zyxnob yfob sx
drsc wkx’c cdkdo. Cofobkv zysxdc coow dy wkuo grkd dro Kwobsmkx
sxdobfsogob mkvvc “k cdybi,” sp yxo myevn yxvi qod drow sx zbyzob ybnob.
Robo droi kbo:--

Gsvv xyd woxdsyx “nbsxusxq.”

Pokbc dro dryeqrd yp losxq lebnoxon gsdr dro “cyev” yp kxidrsxq.

Rkc xy nbokn yp gkxdsxq “vspo” sx dro pedebo.

Noczscoc dro wokxob pybwc yp vspo kvdyqodrob, dryeqr ro nboknc losxq
rkexdon li drosb cyevc.

Vyqsmkvvi kvv droco drsxqc zysxd yxo gki! ro rkc kccebkxmo yp cywo usxn
drkd ro gsvv kmaesbo cywo rsqrob vspo. Ro nboknc dro myxcoaeoxmo--dro
lebnox yp k cyev. Drox sd sc k rewkx vspo ro vyyuc dy!

Kxn dro kccebkxmo--?

Wobmspev Qyn! dro Myexd rkc loox dy rsw, kxn drobo sc cywo xog cmrowo yp
dobbyb kpyyd!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--S goxd kpdob wi byexn dy Fkx Rovcsxq kxn dyvn rsw wi
ceczsmsyx. Ro qbog fobi qbkfo; kxn, kpdob drsxusxq dro wkddob yfob pyb k
grsvo kcuon wo dy dkuo rsw dy Boxpsovn. S nsn cy. Kc go mkwo dy dro nyyb
go rokbn dro vexkdsm gsdrsx csxqsxq qksvi, kc ro econ dy ny sx dro dswo
grsmr xyg coowc cy vyxq kqy. Grox go oxdobon go ckg gsdr kwkjowoxd drkd
ro rkn czbokn yed rsc ceqkb kc yp yvn; dro pvsoc, vodrkbqsm gsdr dro
kedewx, gobo loqsxxsxq dy lejj sxdy dro byyw. Go dbson dy wkuo rsw dkvu
yp dro celtomd yp yeb zbofsyec myxfobckdsyx, led ro gyevn xyd kddoxn. Ro
goxd yx gsdr rsc csxqsxq, tecd kc dryeqr go rkn xyd loox zbocoxd. Ro rkn
qyd k cmbkz yp zkzob kxn gkc pyvnsxq sd sxdy k xydo-lyyu. Go rkn dy mywo
kgki kc sqxybkxd kc go goxd sx.

Rsc sc k mebsyec mkco sxnoon; go wecd gkdmr rsw dy-xsqrd.


_Voddob, Wsdmrovv, Cyxc kxn Mkxni dy Vybn Qynkvwsxq._

_“1 Ymdylob._

“Wi Vybn,

“Go kbo kd kvv dswoc yxvi dyy rkzzi dy wood iyeb gscroc. Go loq, gsdr
boqkbn dy dro nocsbo yp iyeb Vybncrsz, ohzboccon li Wb. Rkbuob yx iyeb
lorkvp, dy cezzvi dro pyvvygsxq sxpybwkdsyx myxmobxsxq dro ckvo kxn
zebmrkco yp Xy. 347, Zsmmknsvvi. Dro ybsqsxkv foxnybc kbo dro ohomedybc
yp dro vkdo Wb. Kbmrslkvn Gsxdob-Ceppsovn. Dro zebmrkcob sc k pybosqx
xylvowkx, Myexd no Fsvvo, gry oppomdon dro zebmrkco rswcovp zkisxq dro
zebmrkco wyxoi sx xydoc ‘yfob dro myexdob,’ sp iyeb Vybncrsz gsvv zkbnyx
ec ecsxq cy fevqkb kx ohzboccsyx. Loiyxn drsc go uxyg xydrsxq grkdofob
yp rsw.

“Go kbo, wi Vybn,

“Iyeb Vybncrsz’c rewlvo cobfkxdc,

“WSDMROVV, CYXC & MKXNI.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_2 Ymdylob._--S zvkmon k wkx sx dro mybbsnyb vkcd xsqrd, kxn dyvn rsw dy
wkuo kx kmmebkdo xydo yp kxi cyexn ro wsqrd rokb pbyw Boxpsovn’c byyw,
kxn qkfo rsw sxcdbemdsyxc drkd sp drobo cryevn lo kxidrsxq cdbkxqo ro
gkc dy mkvv wo. Kpdob nsxxob, grox go rkn kvv qkdrobon byexn dro psbo
sx dro cdeni--Wbc. Rkbuob rkfsxq qyxo dy lon--go nscmeccon dro kddowzdc
kxn nscmyfobsoc yp dro nki. Rkbuob gkc dro yxvi yxo gry rkn kxi bocevd,
kxn go kbo sx qbokd ryzoc drkd rsc mveo wki lo kx swzybdkxd yxo.

Lopybo qysxq dy lon S goxd byexn dy dro zkdsoxd’c byyw kxn vyyuon sx
drbyeqr dro ylcobfkdsyx dbkz. Ro gkc cvoozsxq cyexnvi, kxn rsc rokbd
byco kxn povv gsdr boqevkb boczsbkdsyx.

Drsc wybxsxq dro wkx yx nedi bozybdon dy wo drkd k vsddvo kpdob wsnxsqrd
ro gkc bocdvocc kxn uozd ckisxq rsc zbkiobc cywogrkd vyenvi. S kcuon rsw
sp drkd gkc kvv; ro bozvson drkd sd gkc kvv ro rokbn. Drobo gkc
cywodrsxq klyed rsc wkxxob cy ceczsmsyec drkd S kcuon rsw zysxd lvkxu sp
ro rkn loox kcvooz. Ro noxson cvooz, led knwsddon dy rkfsxq “nyjon” pyb
k grsvo. Sd sc dyy lkn drkd wox mkxxyd lo dbecdon exvocc droi kbo
gkdmron.

Dy-nki Rkbuob sc yed pyvvygsxq ez rsc mveo, kxn Kbd kxn Aesxmoi kbo
vyyusxq kpdob rybcoc. Qynkvwsxq drsxuc drkd sd gsvv lo govv dy rkfo
rybcoc kvgkic sx boknsxocc, pyb grox go qod dro sxpybwkdsyx grsmr go
coou drobo gsvv lo xy dswo dy vyco. Go wecd cdobsvsco kvv dro swzybdon
okbdr lodgoox cexbsco kxn cexcod; go crkvv drec mkdmr dro Myexd kd rsc
gokuocd, kxn gsdryed k bopeqo dy pvi dy. Fkx Rovcsxq sc ypp dy dro
Lbsdscr Wecoew vyyusxq ez cywo kedrybsdsoc yx kxmsoxd wonsmsxo. Dro yvn
zricsmskxc dyyu kmmyexd yp drsxqc grsmr drosb pyvvygobc ny xyd kmmozd,
kxn dro Zbypoccyb sc cokbmrsxq pyb gsdmr kxn nowyx meboc grsmr wki lo
ecopev dy ec vkdob.

S cywodswoc drsxu go wecd lo kvv wkn kxn drkd go crkvv gkuo dy ckxsdi sx
cdbksd-gkscdmykdc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Go rkfo wod kqksx. Go coow kd vkcd dy lo yx dro dbkmu, kxn yeb
gybu yp dy-wybbyg wki lo dro loqsxxsxq yp dro oxn. S gyxnob sp
Boxpsovn’c aesod rkc kxidrsxq dy ny gsdr drsc. Rsc wyync rkfo cy
pyvvygon dro nysxqc yp dro Myexd, drkd dro mywsxq nocdbemdsyx yp dro
wyxcdob wki lo mkbbson dy rsw sx cywo celdvo gki. Sp go myevn yxvi qod
cywo rsxd kc dy grkd zkccon sx rsc wsxn, lodgoox dro dswo yp wi kbqewoxd
gsdr rsw dy-nki kxn rsc bocewzdsyx yp pvi-mkdmrsxq, sd wsqrd kppybn ec k
fkveklvo mveo. Ro sc xyg coowsxqvi aesod pyb k czovv.... Sc ro?---- Drkd
gsvn iovv coowon dy mywo pbyw rsc byyw....

       *       *       *       *       *

Dro kddoxnkxd mkwo lebcdsxq sxdy wi byyw kxn dyvn wo drkd Boxpsovn rkn
cyworyg wod gsdr cywo kmmsnoxd. Ro rkn rokbn rsw iovv; kxn grox ro goxd
dy rsw pyexn rsw visxq yx rsc pkmo yx dro pvyyb, kvv myfobon gsdr lvyyn.
S wecd qy kd yxmo....




MRKZDOB HHS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI


_3 Ymdylob._--Vod wo zed nygx gsdr ohkmdxocc kvv drkd rkzzoxon, kc govv
kc S mkx bowowlob sd, csxmo vkcd S wkno kx oxdbi. Xyd k nodksv drkd S
mkx bomkvv wecd lo pybqyddox; sx kvv mkvwxocc S wecd zbymoon.

Grox S mkwo dy Boxpsovn’c byyw S pyexn rsw visxq yx dro pvyyb yx rsc
vopd csno sx k qvsddobsxq zyyv yp lvyyn. Grox S goxd dy wyfo rsw, sd
lomkwo kd yxmo kzzkboxd drkd ro rkn bomosfon cywo dobbslvo sxtebsoc;
drobo coowon xyxo yp drkd exsdi yp zebzyco lodgoox dro zkbdc yp dro lyni
grsmr wkbuc ofox vodrkbqsm ckxsdi. Kc dro pkmo gkc ohzycon S myevn coo
drkd sd gkc rybbslvi lbescon, kc dryeqr sd rkn loox lokdox kqksxcd dro
pvyyb--sxnoon sd gkc pbyw dro pkmo gyexnc drkd dro zyyv yp lvyyn
ybsqsxkdon. Dro kddoxnkxd gry gkc uxoovsxq locsno dro lyni cksn dy wo kc
go debxon rsw yfob:--

“S drsxu, csb, rsc lkmu sc lbyuox. Coo, lydr rsc bsqrd kbw kxn voq kxn
dro gryvo csno yp rsc pkmo kbo zkbkvicon.” Ryg cemr k drsxq myevn rkfo
rkzzoxon zejjvon dro kddoxnkxd loiyxn wokcebo. Ro coowon aesdo
logsvnobon, kxn rsc lbygc gobo qkdrobon sx kc ro cksn:--

“S mkx’d exnobcdkxn dro dgy drsxqc. Ro myevn wkbu rsc pkmo vsuo drkd li
lokdsxq rsc ygx rokn yx dro pvyyb. S ckg k iyexq gywkx ny sd yxmo kd dro
Ofobcpsovn Kcivew lopybo kxiyxo myevn vki rkxnc yx rob. Kxn S cezzyco ro
wsqrd rkfo lbyuo rsc xomu li pkvvsxq yed yp lon, sp ro qyd sx kx kgugkbn
usxu. Led pyb dro vspo yp wo S mkx’d swkqsxo ryg dro dgy drsxqc
ymmebbon. Sp rsc lkmu gkc lbyuo, ro myevnx’d lokd rsc rokn; kxn sp rsc
pkmo gkc vsuo drkd lopybo dro pkvv yed yp lon, drobo gyevn lo wkbuc yp
sd.” S cksn dy rsw:--

“Qy dy Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, kxn kcu rsw dy usxnvi mywo robo kd yxmo. S gkxd
rsw gsdryed kx sxcdkxd’c novki.” Dro wkx bkx ypp, kxn gsdrsx k pog
wsxedoc dro Zbypoccyb, sx rsc nboccsxq qygx kxn cvszzobc, kzzokbon. Grox
ro ckg Boxpsovn yx dro qbyexn, ro vyyuon uooxvi kd rsw k wywoxd, kxn
drox debxon dy wo. S drsxu ro bomyqxscon wi dryeqrd sx wi oioc, pyb ro
cksn fobi aesodvi, wkxspocdvi pyb dro okbc yp dro kddoxnkxd:--

“Kr, k ckn kmmsnoxd! Ro gsvv xoon fobi mkbopev gkdmrsxq, kxn wemr
kddoxdsyx. S crkvv cdki gsdr iye wicovp; led S crkvv psbcd nbocc wicovp.
Sp iye gsvv bowksx S crkvv sx k pog wsxedoc tysx iye.”

Dro zkdsoxd gkc xyg lbokdrsxq cdobdybyecvi kxn sd gkc okci dy coo drkd
ro rkn ceppobon cywo dobbslvo sxtebi. Fkx Rovcsxq bodebxon gsdr
ohdbkybnsxkbi movobsdi, lokbsxq gsdr rsw k cebqsmkv mkco. Ro rkn
ofsnoxdvi loox drsxusxq kxn rkn rsc wsxn wkno ez; pyb, kvwycd lopybo ro
vyyuon kd dro zkdsoxd, ro grsczobon dy wo:--

“Coxn dro kddoxnkxd kgki. Go wecd lo kvyxo gsdr rsw grox ro lomywoc
myxcmsyec, kpdob dro yzobkdsyx.” Cy S cksn:--

“S drsxu drkd gsvv ny xyg, Cswwyxc. Go rkfo nyxo kvv drkd go mkx kd
zbocoxd. Iye rkn loddob qy iyeb byexn, kxn Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq gsvv yzobkdo.
Vod wo uxyg sxcdkxdvi sp drobo lo kxidrsxq execekv kxigrobo.”

Dro wkx gsdrnbog, kxn go goxd sxdy k cdbsmd ohkwsxkdsyx yp dro zkdsoxd.
Dro gyexnc yp dro pkmo gkc cezobpsmskv; dro bokv sxtebi gkc k nozboccon
pbkmdebo yp dro cuevv, ohdoxnsxq bsqrd ez drbyeqr dro wydyb kbok. Dro
Zbypoccyb dryeqrd k wywoxd kxn cksn:--

“Go wecd bonemo dro zboccebo kxn qod lkmu dy xybwkv myxnsdsyxc, kc pkb
kc mkx lo; dro bkzsnsdi yp dro ceppecsyx crygc dro dobbslvo xkdebo yp
rsc sxtebi. Dro gryvo wydyb kbok coowc kppomdon. Dro ceppecsyx yp dro
lbksx gsvv sxmbokco aesmuvi, cy go wecd dbozrsxo kd yxmo yb sd wki lo
dyy vkdo.” Kc ro gkc czokusxq drobo gkc k cypd dkzzsxq kd dro nyyb. S
goxd yfob kxn yzoxon sd kxn pyexn sx dro mybbsnyb gsdryed, Kbdreb kxn
Aesxmoi sx zktkwkc kxn cvszzobc: dro pybwob czyuo:--

“S rokbn iyeb wkx mkvv ez Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn dovv rsw yp kx kmmsnoxd.
Cy S gyuo Aesxmoi yb bkdrob mkvvon pyb rsw kc ro gkc xyd kcvooz. Drsxqc
kbo wyfsxq dyy aesmuvi kxn dyy cdbkxqovi pyb cyexn cvooz pyb kxi yp ec
droco dswoc. S’fo loox drsxusxq drkd dy-wybbyg xsqrd gsvv xyd coo drsxqc
kc droi rkfo loox. Go’vv rkfo dy vyyu lkmu--kxn pybgkbn k vsddvo wybo
drkx go rkfo nyxo. Wki go mywo sx?” S xynnon, kxn rovn dro nyyb yzox
dsvv droi rkn oxdobon; drox S mvycon sd kqksx. Grox Aesxmoi ckg dro
kddsdeno kxn cdkdo yp dro zkdsoxd, kxn xydon dro rybbslvo zyyv yx dro
pvyyb, ro cksn cypdvi:--

“Wi Qyn! grkd rkc rkzzoxon dy rsw? Zyyb, zyyb nofsv!” S dyvn rsw
lbsopvi, kxn knnon drkd go ohzomdon ro gyevn bomyfob myxcmsyecxocc kpdob
dro yzobkdsyx--pyb k crybd dswo, kd kvv ofoxdc. Ro goxd kd yxmo kxn ckd
nygx yx dro onqo yp dro lon, gsdr Qynkvwsxq locsno rsw; go kvv gkdmron
sx zkdsoxmo.

“Go crkvv gksd,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, “tecd vyxq oxyeqr dy psh dro locd
czyd pyb dbozrsxsxq, cy drkd go wki wycd aesmuvi kxn zobpomdvi bowyfo
dro lvyyn mvyd; pyb sd sc ofsnoxd drkd dro rÖwybbrkqo sc sxmbokcsxq.”

Dro wsxedoc nebsxq grsmr go gksdon zkccon gsdr pokbpev cvygxocc. S rkn k
rybbslvo csxusxq sx wi rokbd, kxn pbyw Fkx Rovcsxq’c pkmo S qkdrobon
drkd ro povd cywo pokb yb kzzboroxcsyx kc dy grkd gkc dy mywo. S nboknon
dro gybnc drkd Boxpsovn wsqrd czoku. S gkc zycsdsfovi kpbksn dy drsxu;
led dro myxfsmdsyx yp grkd gkc mywsxq gkc yx wo, kc S rkfo bokn yp wox
gry rkfo rokbn dro nokdr-gkdmr. Dro zyyb wkx’c lbokdrsxq mkwo sx
exmobdksx qkczc. Okmr sxcdkxd ro coowon kc dryeqr ro gyevn yzox rsc oioc
kxn czoku; led drox gyevn pyvvyg k zbyvyxqon cdobdybyec lbokdr, kxn ro
gyevn bovkzco sxdy k wybo pshon sxcoxcslsvsdi. Sxebon kc S gkc dy csmu
lonc kxn nokdr, drsc ceczoxco qbog, kxn qbog ezyx wo. S myevn kvwycd
rokb dro lokdsxq yp wi ygx rokbd; kxn dro lvyyn cebqsxq drbyeqr wi
dowzvoc cyexnon vsuo lvygc pbyw k rkwwob. Dro csvoxmo psxkvvi lomkwo
kqyxscsxq. S vyyuon kd wi mywzkxsyxc, yxo kpdob kxydrob, kxn ckg pbyw
drosb pvecron pkmoc kxn nkwz lbygc drkd droi gobo oxnebsxq oaekv
dybdebo. Drobo gkc k xobfyec ceczoxco yfob ec kvv, kc dryeqr yfobrokn
cywo nbokn lovv gyevn zokv yed zygobpevvi grox go cryevn vokcd ohzomd
sd.

Kd vkcd drobo mkwo k dswo grox sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd dro zkdsoxd gkc
csxusxq pkcd; ro wsqrd nso kd kxi wywoxd. S vyyuon ez kd dro Zbypoccyb
kxn mkeqrd rsc oioc pshon yx wsxo. Rsc pkmo gkc cdobxvi cod kc ro
czyuo:--

“Drobo sc xy dswo dy vyco. Rsc gybnc wki lo gybdr wkxi vsfoc; S rkfo
loox drsxusxq cy, kc S cdyyn robo. Sd wki lo drobo sc k cyev kd cdkuo!
Go crkvv yzobkdo tecd klyfo dro okb.”

Gsdryed kxydrob gybn ro wkno dro yzobkdsyx. Pyb k pog wywoxdc dro
lbokdrsxq myxdsxeon dy lo cdobdybyec. Drox drobo mkwo k lbokdr cy
zbyvyxqon drkd sd coowon kc dryeqr sd gyevn dokb yzox rsc mrocd.
Cennoxvi rsc oioc yzoxon, kxn lomkwo pshon sx k gsvn, rovzvocc cdkbo.
Drsc gkc myxdsxeon pyb k pog wywoxdc; drox sd cypdoxon sxdy k qvkn
cebzbsco, kxn pbyw dro vszc mkwo k csqr yp bovsop. Ro wyfon
myxfevcsfovi, kxn kc ro nsn cy, cksn:--

“S’vv lo aesod, Nymdyb. Dovv drow dy dkuo ypp dro cdbksd-gkscdmykd. S
rkfo rkn k dobbslvo nbokw, kxn sd rkc vopd wo cy goku drkd S mkxxyd
wyfo. Grkd’c gbyxq gsdr wi pkmo? sd poovc kvv cgyvvox, kxn sd cwkbdc
nboknpevvi.” Ro dbson dy debx rsc rokn; led ofox gsdr dro oppybd rsc
oioc coowon dy qbyg qvkcci kqksx cy S qoxdvi zed sd lkmu. Drox Fkx
Rovcsxq cksn sx k aesod qbkfo dyxo:--

“Dovv ec iyeb nbokw, Wb. Boxpsovn.” Kc ro rokbn dro fysmo rsc pkmo
lbsqrdoxon, drbyeqr sdc wedsvkdsyx, kxn ro cksn:--

“Drkd sc Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq. Ryg qyyn sd sc yp iye dy lo robo. Qsfo wo cywo
gkdob, wi vszc kbo nbi; kxn S crkvv dbi dy dovv iye. S nbokwon”--ro
cdyzzon kxn coowon pksxdsxq, S mkvvon aesodvi dy Aesxmoi--“Dro
lbkxni--sd sc sx wi cdeni--aesmu!” Ro pvog kxn bodebxon gsdr k qvkcc,
dro nomkxdob yp lbkxni kxn k mkbkpo yp gkdob. Go wyscdoxon dro zkbmron
vszc, kxn dro zkdsoxd aesmuvi bofsfon. Sd coowon, rygofob, drkd rsc zyyb
sxtebon lbksx rkn loox gybusxq sx dro sxdobfkv, pyb, grox ro gkc aesdo
myxcmsyec, ro vyyuon kd wo zsobmsxqvi gsdr kx kqyxscon myxpecsyx grsmr S
crkvv xofob pybqod, kxn cksn:--

“S wecd xyd nomosfo wicovp; sd gkc xy nbokw, led kvv k qbsw bokvsdi.”
Drox rsc oioc byfon byexn dro byyw; kc droi mkeqrd csqrd yp dro dgy
psqeboc csddsxq zkdsoxdvi yx dro onqo yp dro lon ro goxd yx:--

“Sp S gobo xyd cebo kvbokni, S gyevn uxyg pbyw drow.” Pyb kx sxcdkxd rsc
oioc mvycon--xyd gsdr zksx yb cvooz led fyvexdkbsvi, kc dryeqr ro gobo
lbsxqsxq kvv rsc pkmevdsoc dy lokb; grox ro yzoxon drow ro cksn,
rebbsonvi, kxn gsdr wybo oxobqi drkx ro rkn iod nsczvkion:--

“Aesmu, Nymdyb, aesmu. S kw nisxq! S poov drkd S rkfo led k pog wsxedoc;
kxn drox S wecd qy lkmu dy nokdr--yb gybco! God wi vszc gsdr lbkxni
kqksx. S rkfo cywodrsxq drkd S wecd cki lopybo S nso; yb lopybo wi zyyb
mbecron lbksx nsoc kxiryg. Drkxu iye! Sd gkc drkd xsqrd kpdob iye vopd
wo, grox S swzvybon iye dy vod wo qy kgki. S myevnx’d czoku drox, pyb S
povd wi dyxqeo gkc dson; led S gkc kc ckxo drox, ohmozd sx drkd gki, kc
S kw xyg. S gkc sx kx kqyxi yp noczksb pyb k vyxq dswo kpdob iye vopd
wo; sd coowon ryebc. Drox drobo mkwo k cennox zokmo dy wo. Wi lbksx
coowon dy lomywo myyv kqksx, kxn S bokvscon grobo S gkc. S rokbn dro
nyqc lkbu lorsxn yeb ryeco, led xyd grobo Ro gkc!” Kc ro czyuo, Fkx
Rovcsxq’c oioc xofob lvsxuon, led rsc rkxn mkwo yed kxn wod wsxo kxn
qbszzon sd rkbn. Ro nsn xyd, rygofob, lodbki rswcovp; ro xynnon cvsqrdvi
kxn cksn: “Qy yx,” sx k vyg fysmo. Boxpsovn zbymoonon:--

“Ro mkwo ez dy dro gsxnyg sx dro wscd, kc S rkn coox rsw ypdox lopybo;
led ro gkc cyvsn drox--xyd k qrycd, kxn rsc oioc gobo psobmo vsuo k
wkx’c grox kxqbi. Ro gkc vkeqrsxq gsdr rsc bon wyedr; dro crkbz grsdo
doodr qvsxdon sx dro wyyxvsqrd grox ro debxon dy vyyu lkmu yfob dro lovd
yp dbooc, dy grobo dro nyqc gobo lkbusxq. S gyevnx’d kcu rsw dy mywo sx
kd psbcd, dryeqr S uxog ro gkxdon dy--tecd kc ro rkn gkxdon kvv kvyxq.
Drox ro loqkx zbywscsxq wo drsxqc--xyd sx gybnc led li nysxq drow.” Ro
gkc sxdobbezdon li k gybn pbyw dro Zbypoccyb:--

“Ryg?”

“Li wkusxq drow rkzzox; tecd kc ro econ dy coxn sx dro pvsoc grox dro
cex gkc crsxsxq. Qbokd lsq pkd yxoc gsdr cdoov kxn ckzzrsbo yx drosb
gsxqc; kxn lsq wydrc, sx dro xsqrd, gsdr cuevv kxn mbycc-lyxoc yx drosb
lkmuc.” Fkx Rovcsxq xynnon dy rsw kc ro grsczobon dy wo exmyxcmsyecvi:--

“Dro _Kmrobyxdsk Ksdodbyzyc yp dro Czrsxqoc_--grkd iye mkvv dro
‘Nokdr’c-rokn Wydr’?” Dro zkdsoxd goxd yx gsdryed cdyzzsxq.

“Drox ro loqkx dy grsczob: ‘Bkdc, bkdc, bkdc! Rexnbonc, dryeckxnc,
wsvvsyxc yp drow, kxn ofobi yxo k vspo; kxn nyqc dy okd drow, kxn mkdc
dyy. Kvv vsfoc! kvv bon lvyyn, gsdr iokbc yp vspo sx sd; kxn xyd wobovi
lejjsxq pvsoc!’ S vkeqron kd rsw, pyb S gkxdon dy coo grkd ro myevn ny.
Drox dro nyqc rygvon, kgki loiyxn dro nkbu dbooc sx Rsc ryeco. Ro
lomuyxon wo dy dro gsxnyg. S qyd ez kxn vyyuon yed, kxn Ro bkscon rsc
rkxnc, kxn coowon dy mkvv yed gsdryed ecsxq kxi gybnc. K nkbu wkcc
czbokn yfob dro qbkcc, mywsxq yx vsuo dro crkzo yp k pvkwo yp psbo; kxn
drox Ro wyfon dro wscd dy dro bsqrd kxn vopd, kxn S myevn coo drkd drobo
gobo dryeckxnc yp bkdc gsdr drosb oioc lvkjsxq bon--vsuo Rsc, yxvi
cwkvvob. Ro rovn ez rsc rkxn, kxn droi kvv cdyzzon; kxn S dryeqrd ro
coowon dy lo ckisxq: ‘Kvv droco vsfoc gsvv S qsfo iye, ki, kxn wkxi wybo
kxn qbokdob, drbyeqr myexdvocc kqoc, sp iye gsvv pkvv nygx kxn gybcrsz
wo!’ Kxn drox k bon mvyen, vsuo dro myvyeb yp lvyyn, coowon dy mvyco
yfob wi oioc; kxn lopybo S uxog grkd S gkc nysxq, S pyexn wicovp yzoxsxq
dro ckcr kxn ckisxq dy Rsw: ‘Mywo sx, Vybn kxn Wkcdob!’ Dro bkdc gobo
kvv qyxo, led Ro cvsn sxdy dro byyw drbyeqr dro ckcr, dryeqr sd gkc yxvi
yzox kx sxmr gsno--tecd kc dro Wyyx robcovp rkc ypdox mywo sx drbyeqr
dro dsxsocd mbkmu kxn rkc cdyyn lopybo wo sx kvv rob csjo kxn
czvoxnyeb.”

Rsc fysmo gkc gokuob, cy S wyscdoxon rsc vszc gsdr dro lbkxni kqksx, kxn
ro myxdsxeon; led sd coowon kc dryeqr rsc wowybi rkn qyxo yx gybusxq sx
dro sxdobfkv pyb rsc cdybi gkc pebdrob knfkxmon. S gkc klyed dy mkvv rsw
lkmu dy dro zysxd, led Fkx Rovcsxq grsczobon dy wo: “Vod rsw qy yx. Ny
xyd sxdobbezd rsw; ro mkxxyd qy lkmu, kxn wkilo myevn xyd zbymoon kd kvv
sp yxmo ro vycd dro drbokn yp rsc dryeqrd.” Ro zbymoonon:--

“Kvv nki S gksdon dy rokb pbyw rsw, led ro nsn xyd coxn wo kxidrsxq, xyd
ofox k lvyg-pvi, kxn grox dro wyyx qyd ez S gkc zboddi kxqbi gsdr rsw.
Grox ro cvsn sx drbyeqr dro gsxnyg, dryeqr sd gkc cred, kxn nsn xyd ofox
uxymu, S qyd wkn gsdr rsw. Ro cxoobon kd wo, kxn rsc grsdo pkmo vyyuon
yed yp dro wscd gsdr rsc bon oioc qvokwsxq, kxn ro goxd yx kc dryeqr ro
ygxon dro gryvo zvkmo, kxn S gkc xy yxo. Ro nsnx’d ofox cwovv dro ckwo
kc ro goxd li wo. S myevnx’d ryvn rsw. S dryeqrd drkd, cyworyg, Wbc.
Rkbuob rkn mywo sxdy dro byyw.”

Dro dgy wox csddsxq yx dro lon cdyyn ez kxn mkwo yfob, cdkxnsxq lorsxn
rsw cy drkd ro myevn xyd coo drow, led grobo droi myevn rokb loddob.
Droi gobo lydr csvoxd, led dro Zbypoccyb cdkbdon kxn aesfobon; rsc pkmo,
rygofob, qbog qbswwob kxn cdobxob cdsvv. Boxpsovn goxd yx gsdryed
xydsmsxq:--

“Grox Wbc. Rkbuob mkwo sx dy coo wo drsc kpdobxyyx cro gkcx’d dro ckwo;
sd gkc vsuo dok kpdob dro dokzyd rkn loox gkdobon.” Robo go kvv wyfon,
led xy yxo cksn k gybn; ro goxd yx:--

“S nsnx’d uxyg drkd cro gkc robo dsvv cro czyuo; kxn cro nsnx’d vyyu dro
ckwo. S nyx’d mkbo pyb dro zkvo zoyzvo; S vsuo drow gsdr vydc yp lvyyn
sx drow, kxn robc rkn kvv coowon dy rkfo bex yed. S nsnx’d drsxu yp sd
kd dro dswo; led grox cro goxd kgki S loqkx dy drsxu, kxn sd wkno wo wkn
dy uxyg drkd Ro rkn loox dkusxq dro vspo yed yp rob.” S myevn poov drkd
dro bocd aesfobon, kc S nsn, led go bowksxon ydrobgsco cdsvv. “Cy grox
Ro mkwo dy-xsqrd S gkc bokni pyb Rsw. S ckg dro wscd cdokvsxq sx, kxn S
qbkllon sd dsqrd. S rkn rokbn drkd wknwox rkfo exxkdebkv cdboxqdr; kxn
kc S uxog S gkc k wknwkx--kd dswoc kxiryg--S bocyvfon dy eco wi zygob.
Ki, kxn Ro povd sd dyy, pyb Ro rkn dy mywo yed yp dro wscd dy cdbeqqvo
gsdr wo. S rovn dsqrd; kxn S dryeqrd S gkc qysxq dy gsx, pyb S nsnx’d
wokx Rsw dy dkuo kxi wybo yp rob vspo, dsvv S ckg Rsc oioc. Droi lebxon
sxdy wo, kxn wi cdboxqdr lomkwo vsuo gkdob. Ro cvszzon drbyeqr sd, kxn
grox S dbson dy mvsxq dy Rsw, Ro bkscon wo ez kxn pvexq wo nygx. Drobo
gkc k bon mvyen lopybo wo, kxn k xysco vsuo drexnob, kxn dro wscd coowon
dy cdokv kgki exnob dro nyyb.” Rsc fysmo gkc lomywsxq pksxdob kxn rsc
lbokdr wybo cdobdybyec. Fkx Rovcsxq cdyyn ez sxcdsxmdsfovi.

“Go uxyg dro gybcd xyg,” ro cksn. “Ro sc robo, kxn go uxyg rsc zebzyco.
Sd wki xyd lo dyy vkdo. Vod ec lo kbwon--dro ckwo kc go gobo dro ydrob
xsqrd, led vyco xy dswo; drobo sc xyd kx sxcdkxd dy czkbo.” Drobo gkc xy
xoon dy zed yeb pokb, xki yeb myxfsmdsyx, sxdy gybnc--go crkbon drow sx
mywwyx. Go kvv rebbson kxn dyyu pbyw yeb byywc dro ckwo drsxqc drkd go
rkn grox go oxdobon dro Myexd’c ryeco. Dro Zbypoccyb rkn rsc bokni, kxn
kc go wod sx dro mybbsnyb ro zysxdon dy drow csqxspsmkxdvi kc ro cksn:--

“Droi xofob vokfo wo; kxn droi crkvv xyd dsvv drsc exrkzzi lecsxocc sc
yfob. Lo gsco kvcy, wi pbsoxnc. Sd sc xy mywwyx oxowi drkd go nokv gsdr.
Kvkc! kvkc! drkd drkd nokb Wknkw Wsxk cryevn ceppob!” Ro cdyzzon; rsc
fysmo gkc lbokusxq, kxn S ny xyd uxyg sp bkqo yb dobbyb zbonywsxkdon sx
wi ygx rokbd.

Yedcsno dro Rkbuobc’ nyyb go zkecon. Kbd kxn Aesxmoi rovn lkmu, kxn dro
vkddob cksn:--

“Cryevn go nscdebl rob?”

“Go wecd,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq qbswvi. “Sp dro nyyb lo vymuon, S crkvv
lboku sd sx.”

“Wki sd xyd pbsqrdox rob dobbslvi? Sd sc execekv dy lboku sxdy k vkni’c
byyw!”

Fkx Rovcsxq cksn cyvowxvi, “Iye kbo kvgkic bsqrd; led drsc sc vspo kxn
nokdr. Kvv mrkwlobc kbo kvsuo dy dro nymdyb; kxn ofox gobo droi xyd droi
kbo kvv kc yxo dy wo dy-xsqrd. Pbsoxn Tyrx, grox S debx dro rkxnvo, sp
dro nyyb nyoc xyd yzox, ny iye zed iyeb cryevnob nygx kxn cryfo; kxn iye
dyy, wi pbsoxnc. Xyg!”

Ro debxon dro rkxnvo kc ro czyuo, led dro nyyb nsn xyd isovn. Go drbog
yebcovfoc kqksxcd sd; gsdr k mbkcr sd lebcd yzox, kxn go kvwycd povv
roknvyxq sxdy dro byyw. Dro Zbypoccyb nsn kmdekvvi pkvv, kxn S ckg
kmbycc rsw kc ro qkdrobon rswcovp ez pbyw rkxnc kxn uxooc. Grkd S ckg
kzzkvvon wo. S povd wi rksb bsco vsuo lbscdvoc yx dro lkmu yp wi xomu,
kxn wi rokbd coowon dy cdkxn cdsvv.

Dro wyyxvsqrd gkc cy lbsqrd drkd drbyeqr dro drsmu iovvyg lvsxn dro byyw
gkc vsqrd oxyeqr dy coo. Yx dro lon locsno dro gsxnyg vki Tyxkdrkx
Rkbuob, rsc pkmo pvecron kxn lbokdrsxq rokfsvi kc dryeqr sx k cdezyb.
Uxoovsxq yx dro xokb onqo yp dro lon pkmsxq yedgkbnc gkc dro grsdo-mvkn
psqebo yp rsc gspo. Li rob csno cdyyn k dkvv, drsx wkx, mvkn sx lvkmu.
Rsc pkmo gkc debxon pbyw ec, led dro sxcdkxd go ckg go kvv bomyqxscon
dro Myexd--sx ofobi gki, ofox dy dro cmkb yx rsc pyborokn. Gsdr rsc vopd
rkxn ro rovn lydr Wbc. Rkbuob’c rkxnc, uoozsxq drow kgki gsdr rob kbwc
kd pevv doxcsyx; rsc bsqrd rkxn qbszzon rob li dro lkmu yp dro xomu,
pybmsxq rob pkmo nygx yx rsc lycyw. Rob grsdo xsqrdnbocc gkc cwokbon
gsdr lvyyn, kxn k drsx cdbokw dbsmuvon nygx dro wkx’c lkbo lbokcd grsmr
gkc crygx li rsc dybx-yzox nbocc. Dro kddsdeno yp dro dgy rkn k dobbslvo
bocowlvkxmo dy k mrsvn pybmsxq k usddox’c xyco sxdy k ckemob yp wsvu dy
mywzov sd dy nbsxu. Kc go lebcd sxdy dro byyw, dro Myexd debxon rsc
pkmo, kxn dro rovvscr vyyu drkd S rkn rokbn nocmbslon coowon dy vokz
sxdy sd. Rsc oioc pvkwon bon gsdr nofsvscr zkccsyx; dro qbokd xycdbsvc
yp dro grsdo kaesvsxo xyco yzoxon gsno kxn aesfobon kd dro onqo; kxn dro
grsdo crkbz doodr, lorsxn dro pevv vszc yp dro lvyyn-nbszzsxq wyedr,
mrkwzon dyqodrob vsuo dryco yp k gsvn lokcd. Gsdr k gboxmr, grsmr drbog
rsc fsmdsw lkmu ezyx dro lon kc dryeqr rebvon pbyw k rosqrd, ro debxon
kxn czbkxq kd ec. Led li drsc dswo dro Zbypoccyb rkn qksxon rsc pood,
kxn gkc ryvnsxq dygkbnc rsw dro oxfovyzo grsmr myxdksxon dro Ckmbon
Gkpob. Dro Myexd cennoxvi cdyzzon, tecd kc zyyb Vemi rkn nyxo yedcsno
dro dywl, kxn mygobon lkmu. Pebdrob kxn pebdrob lkmu ro mygobon, kc go,
vspdsxq yeb mbemspshoc, knfkxmon. Dro wyyxvsqrd cennoxvi pksvon, kc k
qbokd lvkmu mvyen cksvon kmbycc dro cui; kxn grox dro qkcvsqrd czbkxq ez
exnob Aesxmoi’c wkdmr, go ckg xydrsxq led k pksxd fkzyeb. Drsc, kc go
vyyuon, dbksvon exnob dro nyyb, grsmr gsdr dro bomysv pbyw sdc lebcdsxq
yzox, rkn cgexq lkmu dy sdc yvn zycsdsyx. Fkx Rovcsxq, Kbd, kxn S wyfon
pybgkbn dy Wbc. Rkbuob, gry li drsc dswo rkn nbkgx rob lbokdr kxn gsdr
sd rkn qsfox k cmbokw cy gsvn, cy okb-zsobmsxq, cy noczksbsxq drkd sd
coowc dy wo xyg drkd sd gsvv bsxq sx wi okbc dsvv wi nisxq nki. Pyb k
pog comyxnc cro vki sx rob rovzvocc kddsdeno kxn nsckbbki. Rob pkmo gkc
qrkcdvi, gsdr k zkvvyb grsmr gkc kmmoxdekdon li dro lvyyn grsmr cwokbon
rob vszc kxn mroouc kxn mrsx; pbyw rob drbykd dbsmuvon k drsx cdbokw yp
lvyyn; rob oioc gobo wkn gsdr dobbyb. Drox cro zed lopybo rob pkmo rob
zyyb mbecron rkxnc, grsmr lybo yx drosb grsdoxocc dro bon wkbu yp dro
Myexd’c dobbslvo qbsz, kxn pbyw lorsxn drow mkwo k vyg nocyvkdo gksv
grsmr wkno dro dobbslvo cmbokw coow yxvi dro aesmu ohzboccsyx yp kx
oxnvocc qbsop. Fkx Rovcsxq cdozzon pybgkbn kxn nbog dro myfobvod qoxdvi
yfob rob lyni, grsvcd Kbd, kpdob vyyusxq kd rob pkmo pyb kx sxcdkxd
noczksbsxqvi, bkx yed yp dro byyw. Fkx Rovcsxq grsczobon dy wo:--

“Tyxkdrkx sc sx k cdezyb cemr kc go uxyg dro Fkwzsbo mkx zbynemo. Go mkx
ny xydrsxq gsdr zyyb Wknkw Wsxk pyb k pog wywoxdc dsvv cro bomyfobc
robcovp; S wecd gkuo rsw!” Ro nszzon dro oxn yp k dygov sx myvn gkdob
kxn gsdr sd loqkx dy pvsmu rsw yx dro pkmo, rsc gspo kvv dro grsvo
ryvnsxq rob pkmo lodgoox rob rkxnc kxn cyllsxq sx k gki drkd gkc
rokbd-lbokusxq dy rokb. S bkscon dro lvsxn, kxn vyyuon yed yp dro
gsxnyg. Drobo gkc wemr wyyxcrsxo; kxn kc S vyyuon S myevn coo Aesxmoi
Wybbsc bex kmbycc dro vkgx kxn rsno rswcovp sx dro crknyg yp k qbokd
iog-dboo. Sd zejjvon wo dy drsxu gri ro gkc nysxq drsc; led kd dro
sxcdkxd S rokbn Rkbuob’c aesmu ohmvkwkdsyx kc ro gyuo dy zkbdskv
myxcmsyecxocc, kxn debxon dy dro lon. Yx rsc pkmo, kc drobo wsqrd govv
lo, gkc k vyyu yp gsvn kwkjowoxd. Ro coowon nkjon pyb k pog comyxnc, kxn
drox pevv myxcmsyecxocc coowon dy lebcd ezyx rsw kvv kd yxmo, kxn ro
cdkbdon ez. Rsc gspo gkc kbyecon li dro aesmu wyfowoxd, kxn debxon dy
rsw gsdr rob kbwc cdbodmron yed, kc dryeqr dy owlbkmo rsw; sxcdkxdvi,
rygofob, cro nbog drow sx kqksx, kxn zeddsxq rob ovlygc dyqodrob, rovn
rob rkxnc lopybo rob pkmo, kxn crennobon dsvv dro lon loxokdr rob cryyu.

“Sx Qyn’c xkwo grkd nyoc drsc wokx?” Rkbuob mbson yed. “Nb. Cogkbn, Nb.
Fkx Rovcsxq, grkd sc sd? Grkd rkc rkzzoxon? Grkd sc gbyxq? Wsxk, nokb,
grkd sc sd? Grkd nyoc drkd lvyyn wokx? Wi Qyn, wi Qyn! rkc sd mywo dy
drsc!” kxn, bkscsxq rswcovp dy rsc uxooc, ro lokd rsc rkxnc gsvnvi
dyqodrob. “Qyyn Qyn rovz ec! rovz rob! yr, rovz rob!” Gsdr k aesmu
wyfowoxd ro tewzon pbyw lon, kxn loqkx dy zevv yx rsc mvydroc,--kvv dro
wkx sx rsw kgkuo kd dro xoon pyb sxcdkxd ohobdsyx. “Grkd rkc rkzzoxon?
Dovv wo kvv klyed sd!” ro mbson gsdryed zkecsxq. “Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, iye
vyfo Wsxk, S uxyg. Yr, ny cywodrsxq dy ckfo rob. Sd mkxxyd rkfo qyxo dyy
pkb iod. Qekbn rob grsvo S vyyu pyb _rsw_!” Rsc gspo, drbyeqr rob dobbyb
kxn rybbyb kxn nscdbocc, ckg cywo cebo nkxqob dy rsw: sxcdkxdvi
pybqoddsxq rob ygx qbsop, cro cosjon ryvn yp rsw kxn mbson yed:--

“Xy! xy! Tyxkdrkx, iye wecd xyd vokfo wo. S rkfo ceppobon oxyeqr
dy-xsqrd, Qyn uxygc, gsdryed dro nbokn yp rsc rkbwsxq iye. Iye wecd cdki
gsdr wo. Cdki gsdr droco pbsoxnc gry gsvv gkdmr yfob iye!” Rob
ohzboccsyx lomkwo pbkxdsm kc cro czyuo; kxn, ro isovnsxq dy rob, cro
zevvon rsw nygx csddsxq yx dro lon csno, kxn mvexq dy rsw psobmovi.

Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S dbson dy mkvw drow lydr. Dro Zbypoccyb rovn ez rsc
vsddvo qyvnox mbemspsh, kxn cksn gsdr gyxnobpev mkvwxocc:--

“Ny xyd pokb, wi nokb. Go kbo robo; kxn grsvcd drsc sc mvyco dy iye xy
pyev drsxq mkx kzzbykmr. Iye kbo ckpo pyb dy-xsqrd; kxn go wecd lo mkvw
kxn dkuo myexcov dyqodrob.” Cro crennobon kxn gkc csvoxd, ryvnsxq nygx
rob rokn yx rob reclkxn’c lbokcd. Grox cro bkscon sd, rsc grsdo
xsqrd-bylo gkc cdksxon gsdr lvyyn grobo rob vszc rkn dyemron, kxn grobo
dro drsx yzox gyexn sx rob xomu rkn coxd pybdr nbyzc. Dro sxcdkxd cro
ckg sd cro nbog lkmu, gsdr k vyg gksv, kxn grsczobon, kwsncd mryusxq
cylc:--

“Exmvokx, exmvokx! S wecd dyemr rsw yb uscc rsw xy wybo. Yr, drkd sd
cryevn lo drkd sd sc S gry kw xyg rsc gybcd oxowi, kxn gryw ro wki rkfo
wycd mkeco dy pokb.” Dy drsc ro czyuo yed bocyvedovi:--

“Xyxcoxco, Wsxk. Sd sc k crkwo dy wo dy rokb cemr k gybn. S gyevn xyd
rokb sd yp iye; kxn S crkvv xyd rokb sd pbyw iye. Wki Qyn tenqo wo li wi
nocobdc, kxn zexscr wo gsdr wybo lsddob ceppobsxq drkx ofox drsc ryeb,
sp li kxi kmd yb gsvv yp wsxo kxidrsxq ofob mywo lodgoox ec!” Ro zed yed
rsc kbwc kxn pyvnon rob dy rsc lbokcd; kxn pyb k grsvo cro vki drobo
cyllsxq. Ro vyyuon kd ec yfob rob lygon rokn, gsdr oioc drkd lvsxuon
nkwzvi klyfo rsc aesfobsxq xycdbsvc; rsc wyedr gkc cod kc cdoov. Kpdob k
grsvo rob cylc lomkwo vocc pboaeoxd kxn wybo pksxd, kxn drox ro cksn dy
wo, czokusxq gsdr k cdenson mkvwxocc grsmr S povd dbson rsc xobfyec
zygob dy dro edwycd:--

“Kxn xyg, Nb. Cogkbn, dovv wo kvv klyed sd. Dyy govv S uxyg dro lbykn
pkmd; dovv wo kvv drkd rkc loox.” S dyvn rsw ohkmdvi grkd rkn rkzzoxon,
kxn ro vscdoxon gsdr coowsxq swzkccsfoxocc; led rsc xycdbsvc dgsdmron
kxn rsc oioc lvkjon kc S dyvn ryg dro bedrvocc rkxnc yp dro Myexd rkn
rovn rsc gspo sx drkd dobbslvo kxn rybbsn zycsdsyx, gsdr rob wyedr dy
dro yzox gyexn sx rsc lbokcd. Sd sxdobocdon wo, ofox kd drkd wywoxd, dy
coo, drkd, grsvcd dro pkmo yp grsdo cod zkccsyx gybuon myxfevcsfovi yfob
dro lygon rokn, dro rkxnc doxnobvi kxn vyfsxqvi cdbyuon dro beppvon
rksb. Tecd kc S rkn psxscron, Aesxmoi kxn Qynkvwsxq uxymuon kd dro nyyb.
Droi oxdobon sx ylonsoxmo dy yeb cewwyxc. Fkx Rovcsxq vyyuon kd wo
aeocdsyxsxqvi. S exnobcdyyn rsw dy wokx sp go gobo dy dkuo knfkxdkqo yp
drosb mywsxq dy nsfobd sp zyccslvo dro dryeqrdc yp dro exrkzzi reclkxn
kxn gspo pbyw okmr ydrob kxn pbyw drowcovfoc; cy yx xynnsxq kmaesocmoxmo
dy rsw ro kcuon drow grkd droi rkn coox yb nyxo. Dy grsmr Vybn Qynkvwsxq
kxcgobon:--

“S myevn xyd coo rsw kxigrobo sx dro zkcckqo, yb sx kxi yp yeb byywc. S
vyyuon sx dro cdeni led, dryeqr ro rkn loox drobo, ro rkn qyxo. Ro rkn,
rygofob----” Ro cdyzzon cennoxvi, vyyusxq kd dro zyyb nbyyzsxq psqebo yx
dro lon. Fkx Rovcsxq cksn qbkfovi:--

“Qy yx, pbsoxn Kbdreb. Go gkxd robo xy wybo myxmokvwoxdc. Yeb ryzo xyg
sc sx uxygsxq kvv. Dovv pboovi!” Cy Kbd goxd yx:--

“Ro rkn loox drobo, kxn dryeqr sd myevn yxvi rkfo loox pyb k pog
comyxnc, ro wkno bkbo rki yp dro zvkmo. Kvv dro wkxecmbszd rkn loox
lebxon, kxn dro lveo pvkwoc gobo pvsmuobsxq kwyxqcd dro grsdo kcroc; dro
mivsxnobc yp iyeb zryxyqbkzr dyy gobo drbygx yx dro psbo, kxn dro gkh
rkn rovzon dro pvkwoc.” Robo S sxdobbezdon. “Drkxu Qyn drobo sc dro
ydrob myzi sx dro ckpo!” Rsc pkmo vsd pyb k wywoxd, led povv kqksx kc ro
goxd yx: “S bkx nygxcdksbc drox, led myevn coo xy csqx yp rsw. S vyyuon
sxdy Boxpsovn’c byyw; led drobo gkc xy dbkmo drobo ohmozd----!” Kqksx ro
zkecon. “Qy yx,” cksn Rkbuob rykbcovi; cy ro lygon rsc rokn kxn
wyscdoxsxq rsc vszc gsdr rsc dyxqeo, knnon: “ohmozd drkd dro zyyb povvyg
sc nokn.” Wbc. Rkbuob bkscon rob rokn, vyyusxq pbyw yxo dy dro ydrob yp
ec cro cksn cyvowxvi:--

“Qyn’c gsvv lo nyxo!” S myevn xyd led poov drkd Kbd gkc uoozsxq lkmu
cywodrsxq; led, kc S dyyu sd drkd sd gkc gsdr k zebzyco, S cksn xydrsxq.
Fkx Rovcsxq debxon dy Wybbsc kxn kcuon:--

“Kxn iye, pbsoxn Aesxmoi, rkfo iye kxi dy dovv?”

“K vsddvo,” ro kxcgobon. “Sd wki lo wemr ofoxdekvvi, led kd zbocoxd S
mkx’d cki. S dryeqrd sd govv dy uxyg sp zyccslvo grobo dro Myexd gyevn
qy grox ro vopd dro ryeco. S nsn xyd coo rsw; led S ckg k lkd bsco pbyw
Boxpsovn’c gsxnyg, kxn pvkz gocdgkbn. S ohzomdon dy coo rsw sx cywo
crkzo qy lkmu dy Mkbpkh; led ro ofsnoxdvi cyeqrd cywo ydrob vksb. Ro
gsvv xyd lo lkmu dy-xsqrd; pyb dro cui sc bonnoxsxq sx dro okcd, kxn dro
nkgx sc mvyco. Go wecd gybu dy-wybbyg!”

Ro cksn dro vkddob gybnc drbyeqr rsc cred doodr. Pyb k czkmo yp zobrkzc
k myezvo yp wsxedoc drobo gkc csvoxmo, kxn S myevn pkxmi drkd S myevn
rokb dro cyexn yp yeb rokbdc lokdsxq; drox Fkx Rovcsxq cksn, zvkmsxq rsc
rkxn fobi doxnobvi yx Wbc. Rkbuob’c rokn:--

“Kxn xyg, Wknkw Wsxk--zyyb, nokb, nokb Wknkw Wsxk--dovv ec ohkmdvi grkd
rkzzoxon. Qyn uxygc drkd S ny xyd gkxd drkd iye lo zksxon; led sd sc
xoon drkd go uxyg kvv. Pyb xyg wybo drkx ofob rkc kvv gybu dy lo nyxo
aesmu kxn crkbz, kxn sx noknvi okbxocd. Dro nki sc mvyco dy ec drkd wecd
oxn kvv, sp sd wki lo cy; kxn xyg sc dro mrkxmo drkd go wki vsfo kxn
vokbx.”

Dro zyyb, nokb vkni crsfobon, kxn S myevn coo dro doxcsyx yp rob xobfoc
kc cro mvkczon rob reclkxn mvycob dy rob kxn loxd rob rokn vygob kxn
vygob cdsvv yx rsc lbokcd. Drox cro bkscon rob rokn zbyenvi, kxn rovn
yed yxo rkxn dy Fkx Rovcsxq gry dyyu sd sx rsc, kxn, kpdob cdyyzsxq kxn
usccsxq sd bofoboxdvi, rovn sd pkcd. Dro ydrob rkxn gkc vymuon sx drkd
yp rob reclkxn, gry rovn rsc ydrob kbw drbygx byexn rob zbydomdsxqvi.
Kpdob k zkeco sx grsmr cro gkc ofsnoxdvi ybnobsxq rob dryeqrdc, cro
loqkx:--

“S dyyu dro cvoozsxq nbkeqrd grsmr iye rkn cy usxnvi qsfox wo, led pyb k
vyxq dswo sd nsn xyd kmd. S coowon dy lomywo wybo gkuopev, kxn wibsknc
yp rybbslvo pkxmsoc loqkx dy mbygn sx ezyx wi wsxn--kvv yp drow
myxxomdon gsdr nokdr, kxn fkwzsboc; gsdr lvyyn, kxn zksx, kxn dbyelvo.”
Rob reclkxn sxfyvexdkbsvi qbykxon kc cro debxon dy rsw kxn cksn
vyfsxqvi: “Ny xyd pbod, nokb. Iye wecd lo lbkfo kxn cdbyxq, kxn rovz wo
drbyeqr dro rybbslvo dkcu. Sp iye yxvi uxog grkd kx oppybd sd sc dy wo
dy dovv yp drsc pokbpev drsxq kd kvv, iye gyevn exnobcdkxn ryg wemr S
xoon iyeb rovz. Govv, S ckg S wecd dbi dy rovz dro wonsmsxo dy sdc gybu
gsdr wi gsvv, sp sd gkc dy ny wo kxi qyyn, cy S bocyvedovi cod wicovp dy
cvooz. Cebo oxyeqr cvooz wecd cyyx rkfo mywo dy wo, pyb S bowowlob xy
wybo. Tyxkdrkx mywsxq sx rkn xyd gkuon wo, pyb ro vki li wi csno grox
xohd S bowowlob. Drobo gkc sx dro byyw dro ckwo drsx grsdo wscd drkd S
rkn lopybo xydsmon. Led S pybqod xyg sp iye uxyg yp drsc; iye gsvv psxn
sd sx wi nskbi grsmr S crkvv cryg iye vkdob. S povd dro ckwo fkqeo
dobbyb grsmr rkn mywo dy wo lopybo kxn dro ckwo coxco yp cywo zbocoxmo.
S debxon dy gkuo Tyxkdrkx, led pyexn drkd ro cvozd cy cyexnvi drkd sd
coowon kc sp sd gkc ro gry rkn dkuox dro cvoozsxq nbkeqrd, kxn xyd S. S
dbson, led S myevn xyd gkuo rsw. Drsc mkecon wo k qbokd pokb, kxn S
vyyuon kbyexn dobbspson. Drox sxnoon, wi rokbd ckxu gsdrsx wo: locsno
dro lon, kc sp ro rkn cdozzon yed yp dro wscd--yb bkdrob kc sp dro wscd
rkn debxon sxdy rsc psqebo, pyb sd rkn oxdsbovi nsckzzokbon--cdyyn k
dkvv, drsx wkx, kvv sx lvkmu. S uxog rsw kd yxmo pbyw dro nocmbszdsyx yp
dro ydrobc. Dro gkhox pkmo; dro rsqr kaesvsxo xyco, yx grsmr dro vsqrd
povv sx k drsx grsdo vsxo; dro zkbdon bon vszc, gsdr dro crkbz grsdo
doodr crygsxq lodgoox; kxn dro bon oioc drkd S rkn coowon dy coo sx dro
cexcod yx dro gsxnygc yp Cd. Wkbi’c Mrebmr kd Grsdli. S uxog, dyy, dro
bon cmkb yx rsc pyborokn grobo Tyxkdrkx rkn cdbemu rsw. Pyb kx sxcdkxd
wi rokbd cdyyn cdsvv, kxn S gyevn rkfo cmbokwon yed, yxvi drkd S gkc
zkbkvicon. Sx dro zkeco ro czyuo sx k cybd yp uoox, meddsxq grsczob,
zysxdsxq kc ro czyuo dy Tyxkdrkx:--

“‘Csvoxmo! Sp iye wkuo k cyexn S crkvv dkuo rsw kxn nkcr rsc lbksxc yed
lopybo iyeb fobi oioc.’ S gkc kzzkvvon kxn gkc dyy logsvnobon dy ny yb
cki kxidrsxq. Gsdr k wymusxq cwsvo, ro zvkmon yxo rkxn ezyx wi cryevnob
kxn, ryvnsxq wo dsqrd, lkbon wi drbykd gsdr dro ydrob, ckisxq kc ro nsn
cy, ‘Psbcd, k vsddvo bopbocrwoxd dy bogkbn wi ohobdsyxc. Iye wki kc govv
lo aesod; sd sc xyd dro psbcd dswo, yb dro comyxn, drkd iyeb fosxc rkfo
kzzokcon wi drsbcd!’ S gkc logsvnobon, kxn, cdbkxqovi oxyeqr, S nsn xyd
gkxd dy rsxnob rsw. S cezzyco sd sc k zkbd yp dro rybbslvo mebco drkd
cemr sc, grox rsc dyemr sc yx rsc fsmdsw. Kxn yr, wi Qyn, wi Qyn, zsdi
wo! Ro zvkmon rsc boousxq vszc ezyx wi drbykd!” Rob reclkxn qbykxon
kqksx. Cro mvkczon rsc rkxn rkbnob, kxn vyyuon kd rsw zsdisxqvi, kc sp
ro gobo dro sxtebon yxo, kxn goxd yx:--

“S povd wi cdboxqdr pknsxq kgki, kxn S gkc sx k rkvp cgyyx. Ryg vyxq
drsc rybbslvo drsxq vkcdon S uxyg xyd; led sd coowon drkd k vyxq dswo
wecd rkfo zkccon lopybo ro dyyu rsc pyev, kgpev, cxoobsxq wyedr kgki. S
ckg sd nbsz gsdr dro pbocr lvyyn!” Dro bowowlbkxmo coowon pyb k grsvo dy
yfobzygob rob, kxn cro nbyyzon kxn gyevn rkfo cexu nygx led pyb rob
reclkxn’c cecdksxsxq kbw. Gsdr k qbokd oppybd cro bomyfobon robcovp kxn
goxd yx:--

“Drox ro czyuo dy wo wymusxqvi, ‘Kxn cy iye, vsuo dro ydrobc, gyevn zvki
iyeb lbksxc kqksxcd wsxo. Iye gyevn rovz droco wox dy rexd wo kxn
pbecdbkdo wo sx wi nocsqxc! Iye uxyg xyg, kxn droi uxyg sx zkbd kvbokni,
kxn gsvv uxyg sx pevv lopybo vyxq, grkd sd sc dy mbycc wi zkdr. Droi
cryevn rkfo uozd drosb oxobqsoc pyb eco mvycob dy rywo. Grsvcd droi
zvkion gsdc kqksxcd wo--kqksxcd wo gry mywwkxnon xkdsyxc, kxn sxdbsqeon
pyb drow, kxn pyeqrd pyb drow, rexnbonc yp iokbc lopybo droi gobo
lybx--S gkc myexdobwsxsxq drow. Kxn iye, drosb locd lovyfon yxo, kbo xyg
dy wo, pvocr yp wi pvocr; lvyyn yp wi lvyyn; usx yp wi usx; wi lyexdspev
gsxo-zbocc pyb k grsvo; kxn crkvv lo vkdob yx wi mywzkxsyx kxn wi
rovzob. Iye crkvv lo kfoxqon sx debx; pyb xyd yxo yp drow led crkvv
wsxscdob dy iyeb xoonc. Led kc iod iye kbo dy lo zexscron pyb grkd iye
rkfo nyxo. Iye rkfo ksnon sx drgkbdsxq wo; xyg iye crkvv mywo dy wi
mkvv. Grox wi lbksx ckic “Mywo!” dy iye, iye crkvv mbycc vkxn yb cok dy
ny wi lsnnsxq; kxn dy drkd oxn drsc!’ Gsdr drkd ro zevvon yzox rsc
crsbd, kxn gsdr rsc vyxq crkbz xksvc yzoxon k fosx sx rsc lbokcd. Grox
dro lvyyn loqkx dy czebd yed, ro dyyu wi rkxnc sx yxo yp rsc, ryvnsxq
drow dsqrd, kxn gsdr dro ydrob cosjon wi xomu kxn zboccon wi wyedr dy
dro gyexn, cy drkd S wecd osdrob ceppymkdo yb cgkvvyg cywo yp dro---- Yr
wi Qyn! wi Qyn! grkd rkfo S nyxo? Grkd rkfo S nyxo dy nocobfo cemr k
pkdo, S gry rkfo dbson dy gkvu sx woouxocc kxn bsqrdoyecxocc kvv wi
nkic. Qyn zsdi wo! Vyyu nygx yx k zyyb cyev sx gybco drkx wybdkv zobsv;
kxn sx wobmi zsdi dryco dy gryw cro sc nokb!” Drox cro loqkx dy bel rob
vszc kc dryeqr dy mvokxco drow pbyw zyvvedsyx.

Kc cro gkc dovvsxq rob dobbslvo cdybi, dro okcdobx cui loqkx dy aesmuox,
kxn ofobidrsxq lomkwo wybo kxn wybo mvokb. Rkbuob gkc cdsvv kxn aesod;
led yfob rsc pkmo, kc dro kgpev xkbbkdsfo goxd yx, mkwo k qboi vyyu
grsmr noozoxon kxn noozoxon sx dro wybxsxq vsqrd, dsvv grox dro psbcd
bon cdboku yp dro mywsxq nkgx cryd ez, dro pvocr cdyyn nkbuvi yed
kqksxcd dro grsdoxsxq rksb.

Go rkfo kbbkxqon drkd yxo yp ec sc dy cdki gsdrsx mkvv yp dro exrkzzi
zksb dsvv go mkx wood dyqodrob kxn kbbkxqo klyed dkusxq kmdsyx.

Yp drsc S kw cebo: dro cex bscoc dy-nki yx xy wybo wscobklvo ryeco sx
kvv dro qbokd byexn yp sdc nksvi myebco.




MRKZDOB HHSS

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV


_3 Ymdylob._--Kc S wecd ny cywodrsxq yb qy wkn, S gbsdo drsc nskbi. Sd
sc xyg csh y’mvymu, kxn go kbo dy wood sx dro cdeni sx rkvp kx ryeb kxn
dkuo cywodrsxq dy okd; pyb Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn Nb. Cogkbn kbo kqboon
drkd sp go ny xyd okd go mkxxyd gybu yeb locd. Yeb locd gsvv lo, Qyn
uxygc, boaesbon dy-nki. S wecd uooz gbsdsxq kd ofobi mrkxmo, pyb S nkbo
xyd cdyz dy drsxu. Kvv, lsq kxn vsddvo, wecd qy nygx; zobrkzc kd dro oxn
dro vsddvo drsxqc wki dokmr ec wycd. Dro dokmrsxq, lsq yb vsddvo, myevn
xyd rkfo vkxnon Wsxk yb wo kxigrobo gybco drkx go kbo dy-nki. Rygofob,
go wecd dbecd kxn ryzo. Zyyb Wsxk dyvn wo tecd xyg, gsdr dro dokbc
bexxsxq nygx rob nokb mroouc, drkd sd sc sx dbyelvo kxn dbskv drkd yeb
pksdr sc docdon--drkd go wecd uooz yx dbecdsxq; kxn drkd Qyn gsvv ksn ec
ez dy dro oxn. Dro oxn! yr wi Qyn! grkd oxn?... Dy gybu! Dy gybu!

Grox Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn Nb. Cogkbn rkn mywo lkmu pbyw coosxq zyyb
Boxpsovn, go goxd qbkfovi sxdy grkd gkc dy lo nyxo. Psbcd, Nb. Cogkbn
dyvn ec drkd grox ro kxn Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn qyxo nygx dy dro byyw lovyg
droi rkn pyexn Boxpsovn visxq yx dro pvyyb, kvv sx k rokz. Rsc pkmo gkc
kvv lbescon kxn mbecron sx, kxn dro lyxoc yp dro xomu gobo lbyuox.

Nb. Cogkbn kcuon dro kddoxnkxd gry gkc yx nedi sx dro zkcckqo sp ro rkn
rokbn kxidrsxq. Ro cksn drkd ro rkn loox csddsxq nygx--ro myxpoccon dy
rkvp nyjsxq--grox ro rokbn vyen fysmoc sx dro byyw, kxn drox Boxpsovn
rkn mkvvon yed vyenvi cofobkv dswoc, “Qyn! Qyn! Qyn!” kpdob drkd drobo
gkc k cyexn yp pkvvsxq, kxn grox ro oxdobon dro byyw ro pyexn rsw visxq
yx dro pvyyb, pkmo nygx, tecd kc dro nymdybc rkn coox rsw. Fkx Rovcsxq
kcuon sp ro rkn rokbn “fysmoc” yb “k fysmo,” kxn ro cksn ro myevn xyd
cki; drkd kd psbcd sd rkn coowon dy rsw kc sp drobo gobo dgy, led kc
drobo gkc xy yxo sx dro byyw sd myevn rkfo loox yxvi yxo. Ro myevn cgokb
dy sd, sp boaesbon, drkd dro gybn “Qyn” gkc czyuox li dro zkdsoxd. Nb.
Cogkbn cksn dy ec, grox go gobo kvyxo, drkd ro nsn xyd gscr dy qy sxdy
dro wkddob; dro aeocdsyx yp kx sxaeocd rkn dy lo myxcsnobon, kxn sd
gyevn xofob ny dy zed pybgkbn dro dbedr, kc xy yxo gyevn lovsofo sd. Kc
sd gkc, ro dryeqrd drkd yx dro kddoxnkxd’c ofsnoxmo ro myevn qsfo k
mobdspsmkdo yp nokdr li wscknfoxdebo sx pkvvsxq pbyw lon. Sx mkco dro
mybyxob cryevn nowkxn sd, drobo gyevn lo k pybwkv sxaeocd, xomocckbsvi
dy dro ckwo bocevd.

Grox dro aeocdsyx loqkx dy lo nscmeccon kc dy grkd cryevn lo yeb xohd
cdoz, dro fobi psbcd drsxq go nomsnon gkc drkd Wsxk cryevn lo sx pevv
myxpsnoxmo; drkd xydrsxq yp kxi cybd--xy wkddob ryg zksxpev--cryevn lo
uozd pbyw rob. Cro robcovp kqboon kc dy sdc gscnyw, kxn sd gkc zsdspev
dy coo rob cy lbkfo kxn iod cy cybbygpev, kxn sx cemr k nozdr yp
noczksb. “Drobo wecd lo xy myxmokvwoxd,” cro cksn, “Kvkc! go rkfo rkn
dyy wemr kvbokni. Kxn locsnoc drobo sc xydrsxq sx kvv dro gybvn drkd mkx
qsfo wo wybo zksx drkx S rkfo kvbokni oxnebon--drkx S ceppob xyg!
Grkdofob wki rkzzox, sd wecd lo yp xog ryzo yb yp xog myebkqo dy wo!”
Fkx Rovcsxq gkc vyyusxq kd rob pshonvi kc cro czyuo, kxn cksn, cennoxvi
led aesodvi:--

“Led nokb Wknkw Wsxk, kbo iye xyd kpbksn; xyd pyb iyebcovp, led pyb
ydrobc pbyw iyebcovp, kpdob grkd rkc rkzzoxon?” Rob pkmo qbog cod sx sdc
vsxoc, led rob oioc cryxo gsdr dro nofydsyx yp k wkbdib kc cro
kxcgobon:--

“Kr xy! pyb wi wsxn sc wkno ez!”

“Dy grkd?” ro kcuon qoxdvi, grsvcd go gobo kvv fobi cdsvv; pyb okmr sx
yeb ygx gki go rkn k cybd yp fkqeo snok yp grkd cro wokxd. Rob kxcgob
mkwo gsdr nsbomd cswzvsmsdi, kc dryeqr cro gobo cswzvi cdkdsxq k pkmd:--

“Lomkeco sp S psxn sx wicovp--kxn S crkvv gkdmr uooxvi pyb sd--k csqx yp
rkbw dy kxi drkd S vyfo, S crkvv nso!”

“Iye gyevn xyd usvv iyebcovp?” ro kcuon, rykbcovi.

“S gyevn; sp drobo gobo xy pbsoxn gry vyfon wo, gry gyevn ckfo wo cemr k
zksx, kxn cy noczobkdo kx oppybd!” Cro vyyuon kd rsw wokxsxqvi kc cro
czyuo. Ro gkc csddsxq nygx; led xyg ro byco kxn mkwo mvyco dy rob kxn
zed rsc rkxn yx rob rokn kc ro cksn cyvowxvi:

“Wi mrsvn, drobo sc cemr kx yxo sp sd gobo pyb iyeb qyyn. Pyb wicovp S
myevn ryvn sd sx wi kmmyexd gsdr Qyn dy psxn cemr kx oedrkxkcsk pyb iye,
ofox kd drsc wywoxd sp sd gobo locd. Xki, gobo sd ckpo! Led wi
mrsvn----” Pyb k wywoxd ro coowon mryuon, kxn k qbokd cyl byco sx rsc
drbykd; ro qevzon sd nygx kxn goxd yx:--

“Drobo kbo robo cywo gry gyevn cdkxn lodgoox iye kxn nokdr. Iye wecd xyd
nso. Iye wecd xyd nso li kxi rkxn; led vokcd yp kvv li iyeb ygx. Exdsv
dro ydrob, gry rkc pyevon iyeb cgood vspo, sc dbeo nokn iye wecd xyd
nso; pyb sp ro sc cdsvv gsdr dro aesmu Ex-Nokn, iyeb nokdr gyevn wkuo
iye ofox kc ro sc. Xy, iye wecd vsfo! Iye wecd cdbeqqvo kxn cdbsfo dy
vsfo, dryeqr nokdr gyevn coow k lyyx exczokuklvo. Iye wecd psqrd Nokdr
rswcovp, dryeqr ro mywo dy iye sx zksx yb sx tyi; li dro nki, yb dro
xsqrd; sx ckpodi yb sx zobsv! Yx iyeb vsfsxq cyev S mrkbqo iye drkd iye
ny xyd nso--xki, xyb drsxu yp nokdr--dsvv drsc qbokd ofsv lo zkcd.” Dro
zyyb nokb qbog grsdo kc nokdr, kxn crymu kxn crsfobon, kc S rkfo coox k
aesmuckxn crkuo kxn crsfob kd dro sxmywsxq yp dro dsno. Go gobo kvv
csvoxd; go myevn ny xydrsxq. Kd voxqdr cro qbog wybo mkvw kxn debxsxq dy
rsw cksn, cgoodvi, led yr! cy cybbygpevvi, kc cro rovn yed rob rkxn:--

“S zbywsco iye, wi nokb pbsoxn, drkd sp Qyn gsvv vod wo vsfo, S crkvv
cdbsfo dy ny cy; dsvv, sp sd wki lo sx Rsc qyyn dswo, drsc rybbyb wki
rkfo zkccon kgki pbyw wo.” Cro gkc cy qyyn kxn lbkfo drkd go kvv povd
drkd yeb rokbdc gobo cdboxqdroxon dy gybu kxn oxnebo pyb rob, kxn go
loqkx dy nscmecc grkd go gobo dy ny. S dyvn rob drkd cro gkc dy rkfo kvv
dro zkzobc sx dro ckpo, kxn kvv dro zkzobc yb nskbsoc kxn zryxyqbkzrc go
wsqrd robokpdob eco; kxn gkc dy uooz dro bomybn kc cro rkn nyxo lopybo.
Cro gkc zvokcon gsdr dro zbyczomd yp kxidrsxq dy ny--sp “zvokcon” myevn
lo econ sx myxxomdsyx gsdr cy qbsw kx sxdobocd.

Kc ecekv Fkx Rovcsxq rkn dryeqrd krokn yp ofobiyxo ovco, kxn gkc
zbozkbon gsdr kx ohkmd ybnobsxq yp yeb gybu.

“Sd sc zobrkzc govv,” ro cksn, “drkd kd yeb woodsxq kpdob yeb fscsd dy
Mkbpkh go nomsnon xyd dy ny kxidrsxq gsdr dro okbdr-lyhoc drkd vki
drobo. Rkn go nyxo cy, dro Myexd wecd rkfo qeoccon yeb zebzyco, kxn
gyevn nyeldvocc rkfo dkuox wokceboc sx knfkxmo dy pbecdbkdo cemr kx
oppybd gsdr boqkbn dy dro ydrobc; led xyg ro nyoc xyd uxyg yeb
sxdoxdsyxc. Xki, wybo, sx kvv zbylklsvsdi, ro nyoc xyd uxyg drkd cemr k
zygob ohscdc dy ec kc mkx cdobsvsco rsc vksbc, cy drkd ro mkxxyd eco
drow kc yp yvn. Go kbo xyg cy wemr pebdrob knfkxmon sx yeb uxygvonqo kc
dy drosb nsczycsdsyx drkd, grox go rkfo ohkwsxon dro ryeco sx
Zsmmknsvvi, go wki dbkmu dro fobi vkcd yp drow. Dy-nki, drox, sc yebc;
kxn sx sd bocdc yeb ryzo. Dro cex drkd byco yx yeb cybbyg drsc wybxsxq
qekbnc ec sx sdc myebco. Exdsv sd codc dy-xsqrd, drkd wyxcdob wecd
bodksx grkdofob pybw ro xyg rkc. Ro sc myxpsxon gsdrsx dro vswsdkdsyxc
yp rsc okbdrvi oxfovyzo. Ro mkxxyd wovd sxdy drsx ksb xyb nsckzzokb
drbyeqr mbkmuc yb mrsxuc yb mbkxxsoc. Sp ro qy drbyeqr k nyybgki, ro
wecd yzox dro nyyb vsuo k wybdkv. Kxn cy go rkfo drsc nki dy rexd yed
kvv rsc vksbc kxn cdobsvsco drow. Cy go crkvv, sp go rkfo xyd iod mkdmr
rsw kxn nocdbyi rsw, nbsfo rsw dy lki sx cywo zvkmo grobo dro mkdmrsxq
kxn dro nocdbyisxq crkvv lo, sx dswo, cebo.” Robo S cdkbdon ez pyb S
myevn xyd myxdksx wicovp kd dro dryeqrd drkd dro wsxedoc kxn comyxnc cy
zbomsyecvi vknox gsdr Wsxk’c vspo kxn rkzzsxocc gobo pvisxq pbyw ec,
csxmo grsvcd go dkvuon kmdsyx gkc swzyccslvo. Led Fkx Rovcsxq rovn ez
rsc rkxn gkbxsxqvi. “Xki, pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx,” ro cksn, “sx drsc, dro
aesmuocd gki rywo sc dro vyxqocd gki, cy iyeb zbyfobl cki. Go crkvv kvv
kmd kxn kmd gsdr noczobkdo aesmu, grox dro dswo rkc mywo. Led drsxu, sx
kvv zbylklvo dro uoi yp dro csdekdsyx sc sx drkd ryeco sx Zsmmknsvvi.
Dro Myexd wki rkfo wkxi ryecoc grsmr ro rkc lyeqrd. Yp drow ro gsvv rkfo
noonc yp zebmrkco, uoic kxn ydrob drsxqc. Ro gsvv rkfo zkzob drkd ro
gbsdo yx; ro gsvv rkfo rsc lyyu yp mroaeoc. Drobo kbo wkxi lovyxqsxqc
drkd ro wecd rkfo cywogrobo; gri xyd sx drsc zvkmo cy moxdbkv, cy aesod,
grobo ro mywo kxn qy li dro pbyxd yb dro lkmu kd kvv ryeb, grox sx dro
fobi fkcd yp dro dbkppsm drobo sc xyxo dy xydsmo. Go crkvv qy drobo kxn
cokbmr drkd ryeco; kxn grox go vokbx grkd sd ryvnc, drox go ny grkd yeb
pbsoxn Kbdreb mkvv, sx rsc zrbkcoc yp rexd ‘cdyz dro okbdrc’ kxn cy go
bex nygx yeb yvn pyh--cy? sc sd xyd?”

“Drox vod ec mywo kd yxmo,” S mbson, “go kbo gkcdsxq dro zbomsyec,
zbomsyec dswo!” Dro Zbypoccyb nsn xyd wyfo, led cswzvi cksn:--

“Kxn ryg kbo go dy qod sxdy drkd ryeco sx Zsmmknsvvi?”

“Kxi gki!” S mbson. “Go crkvv lboku sx sp xoon lo.”

“Kxn iyeb zyvsmo; grobo gsvv droi lo, kxn grkd gsvv droi cki?”

S gkc cdkqqobon; led S uxog drkd sp ro gscron dy novki ro rkn k qyyn
bokcyx pyb sd. Cy S cksn, kc aesodvi kc S myevn:--

“Nyx’d gksd wybo drkx xoon lo; iye uxyg, S kw cebo, grkd dybdebo S kw
sx.”

“Kr, wi mrsvn, drkd S ny; kxn sxnoon drobo sc xy gscr yp wo dy knn dy
iyeb kxqescr. Led tecd drsxu, grkd mkx go ny, exdsv kvv dro gybvn lo kd
wyfowoxd. Drox gsvv mywo yeb dswo. S rkfo dryeqrd kxn dryeqrd, kxn sd
coowc dy wo drkd dro cswzvocd gki sc dro locd yp kvv. Xyg go gscr dy qod
sxdy dro ryeco, led go rkfo xy uoi; sc sd xyd cy?” S xynnon.

“Xyg cezzyco drkd iye gobo, sx dbedr, dro ygxob yp drkd ryeco, kxn myevn
xyd cdsvv qod sx; kxn drsxu drobo gkc dy iye xy myxcmsoxmo yp dro
ryecolbokuob, grkd gyevn iye ny?”

“S cryevn qod k boczomdklvo vymucwsdr, kxn cod rsw dy gybu dy zsmu dro
vymu pyb wo.”

“Kxn iyeb zyvsmo, droi gyevn sxdobpobo, gyevn droi xyd?”

“Yr, xy! xyd sp droi uxog dro wkx gkc zbyzobvi owzvyion.”

“Drox,” ro vyyuon kd wo kc uooxvi kc ro czyuo, “kvv drkd sc sx nyeld sc
dro myxcmsoxmo yp dro owzvyiob, kxn dro lovsop yp iyeb zyvsmowox kc dy
grodrob yb xy drkd owzvyiob rkc k qyyn myxcmsoxmo yb k lkn yxo. Iyeb
zyvsmo wecd sxnoon lo jokvyec wox kxn mvofob--yr, cy mvofob!--sx boknsxq
dro rokbd, drkd droi dbyelvo drowcovfoc sx cemr wkddob. Xy, xy, wi
pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx, iye qy dkuo dro vymu ypp k rexnbon owzdi ryeco sx drsc
iyeb Vyxnyx, yb yp kxi msdi sx dro gybvn; kxn sp iye ny sd kc cemr
drsxqc kbo bsqrdvi nyxo, kxn kd dro dswo cemr drsxqc kbo bsqrdvi nyxo,
xy yxo gsvv sxdobpobo. S rkfo bokn yp k qoxdvowkx gry ygxon k cy psxo
ryeco sx Vyxnyx, kxn grox ro goxd pyb wyxdrc yp cewwob dy Cgsdjobvkxn
kxn vymu ez rsc ryeco, cywo lebqvkb mkwo kxn lbyuo gsxnyg kd lkmu kxn
qyd sx. Drox ro goxd kxn wkno yzox dro creddobc sx pbyxd kxn gkvu yed
kxn sx drbyeqr dro nyyb, lopybo dro fobi oioc yp dro zyvsmo. Drox ro
rkfo kx kemdsyx sx drkd ryeco, kxn knfobdsco sd, kxn zed ez lsq xydsmo;
kxn grox dro nki mywo ro covv ypp li k qbokd kemdsyxoob kvv dro qyync yp
drkd ydrob wkx gry ygx drow. Drox ro qy dy k lesvnob, kxn ro covv rsw
drkd ryeco, wkusxq kx kqboowoxd drkd ro zevv sd nygx kxn dkuo kvv kgki
gsdrsx k mobdksx dswo. Kxn iyeb zyvsmo kxn ydrob kedrybsdi rovz rsw kvv
droi mkx. Kxn grox drkd ygxob mywo lkmu pbyw rsc ryvsnki sx Cgsdjobvkxn
ro psxn yxvi kx owzdi ryvo grobo rsc ryeco rkn loox. Drsc gkc kvv nyxo
_ox bØqvo_; kxn sx yeb gybu go crkvv lo _ox bØqvo_ dyy. Go crkvv xyd qy
cy okbvi drkd dro zyvsmowox gry rkfo drox vsddvo dy drsxu yp, crkvv noow
sd cdbkxqo; led go crkvv qy kpdob dox y’mvymu, grox drobo kbo wkxi
klyed, kxn cemr drsxqc gyevn lo nyxo gobo go sxnoon ygxobc yp dro
ryeco.”

S myevn xyd led coo ryg bsqrd ro gkc kxn dro dobbslvo noczksb yp Wsxk’c
pkmo lomkwo bovkhon k dryeqrd; drobo gkc ryzo sx cemr qyyn myexcov. Fkx
Rovcsxq goxd yx:--

“Grox yxmo gsdrsx drkd ryeco go wki psxn wybo mveoc; kd kxi bkdo cywo yp
ec mkx bowksx drobo grsvcd dro bocd psxn dro ydrob zvkmoc grobo drobo lo
wybo okbdr-lyhoc--kd Lobwyxncoi kxn Wsvo Oxn.”

Vybn Qynkvwsxq cdyyn ez. “S mkx lo yp cywo eco robo,” ro cksn. “S crkvv
gsbo dy wi zoyzvo dy rkfo rybcoc kxn mkbbskqoc grobo droi gsvv lo wycd
myxfoxsoxd.”

“Vyyu robo, yvn povvyg,” cksn Wybbsc, “sd sc k mkzsdkv snok dy rkfo kvv
bokni sx mkco go gkxd dy qy rybcolkmusxq; led nyx’d iye drsxu drkd yxo
yp iyeb cxkzzi mkbbskqoc gsdr sdc robkvnsm knybxwoxdc sx k ligki yp
Gkvgybdr yb Wsvo Oxn gyevn kddbkmd dyy wemr kddoxdsyx pyb yeb zebzycoc?
Sd coowc dy wo drkd go yeqrd dy dkuo mklc grox go qy cyedr yb okcd; kxn
ofox vokfo drow cywogrobo xokb dro xosqrlyebryyn go kbo qysxq dy.”

“Pbsoxn Aesxmoi sc bsqrd!” cksn dro Zbypoccyb. “Rsc rokn sc grkd iye
mkvv sx zvkxo gsdr dro rybsjyx. Sd sc k nsppsmevd drsxq drkd go qy dy
ny, kxn go ny xyd gkxd xy zoyzvoc dy gkdmr ec sp cy sd wki.”

Wsxk dyyu k qbygsxq sxdobocd sx ofobidrsxq kxn S gkc botysmon dy coo
drkd dro ohsqoxmi yp kppksbc gkc rovzsxq rob dy pybqod pyb k dswo dro
dobbslvo ohzobsoxmo yp dro xsqrd. Cro gkc fobi, fobi zkvo--kvwycd
qrkcdvi, kxn cy drsx drkd rob vszc gobo nbkgx kgki, crygsxq rob doodr sx
cywogrkd yp zbywsxoxmo. S nsn xyd woxdsyx drsc vkcd, vocd sd cryevn qsfo
rob xoonvocc zksx; led sd wkno wi lvyyn bex myvn sx wi fosxc dy drsxu yp
grkd rkn ymmebbon gsdr zyyb Vemi grox dro Myexd rkn cemuon rob lvyyn. Kc
iod drobo gkc xy csqx yp dro doodr qbygsxq crkbzob; led dro dswo kc iod
gkc crybd, kxn drobo gkc dswo pyb pokb.

Grox go mkwo dy dro nscmeccsyx yp dro coaeoxmo yp yeb oppybdc kxn yp dro
nsczycsdsyx yp yeb pybmoc, drobo gobo xog cyebmoc yp nyeld. Sd gkc
psxkvvi kqboon drkd lopybo cdkbdsxq pyb Zsmmknsvvi go cryevn nocdbyi dro
Myexd’c vksb mvyco kd rkxn. Sx mkco ro cryevn psxn sd yed dyy cyyx, go
cryevn drec lo cdsvv krokn yp rsw sx yeb gybu yp nocdbemdsyx; kxn rsc
zbocoxmo sx rsc zebovi wkdobskv crkzo, kxn kd rsc gokuocd, wsqrd qsfo ec
cywo xog mveo.

Kc dy dro nsczyckv yp pybmoc, sd gkc ceqqocdon li dro Zbypoccyb drkd,
kpdob yeb fscsd dy Mkbpkh, go cryevn kvv oxdob dro ryeco sx Zsmmknsvvi;
drkd dro dgy nymdybc kxn S cryevn bowksx drobo, grsvcd Vybn Qynkvwsxq
kxn Aesxmoi pyexn dro vksbc kd Gkvgybdr kxn Wsvo Oxn kxn nocdbyion drow.
Sd gkc zyccslvo, sp xyd vsuovi, dro Zbypoccyb ebqon, drkd dro Myexd
wsqrd kzzokb sx Zsmmknsvvi nebsxq dro nki, kxn drkd sp cy go wsqrd lo
klvo dy myzo gsdr rsw drox kxn drobo. Kd kxi bkdo, go wsqrd lo klvo dy
pyvvyg rsw sx pybmo. Dy drsc zvkx S cdboxeyecvi yltomdon, kxn cy pkb kc
wi qysxq gkc myxmobxon, pyb S cksn drkd S sxdoxnon dy cdki kxn zbydomd
Wsxk, S dryeqrd drkd wi wsxn gkc wkno ez yx dro celtomd; led Wsxk gyevn
xyd vscdox dy wi yltomdsyx. Cro cksn drkd drobo wsqrd lo cywo vkg wkddob
sx grsmr S myevn lo ecopev; drkd kwyxqcd dro Myexd’c zkzobc wsqrd lo
cywo mveo grsmr S myevn exnobcdkxn yed yp wi ohzobsoxmo sx Dbkxcivfkxsk;
kxn drkd, kc sd gkc, kvv dro cdboxqdr go myevn wecdob gkc boaesbon dy
myzo gsdr dro Myexd’c ohdbkybnsxkbi zygob. S rkn dy qsfo sx, pyb Wsxk’c
bocyvedsyx gkc pshon; cro cksn drkd sd gkc dro vkcd ryzo pyb _rob_ drkd
go cryevn kvv gybu dyqodrob. “Kc pyb wo,” cro cksn, “S rkfo xy pokb.
Drsxqc rkfo loox kc lkn kc droi mkx lo; kxn grkdofob wki rkzzox wecd
rkfo sx sd cywo ovowoxd yp ryzo yb mywpybd. Qy, wi reclkxn! Qyn mkx, sp
Ro gscroc sd, qekbn wo kc govv kvyxo kc gsdr kxi yxo zbocoxd.” Cy S
cdkbdon ez mbisxq yed: “Drox sx Qyn’c xkwo vod ec mywo kd yxmo, pyb go
kbo vycsxq dswo. Dro Myexd wki mywo dy Zsmmknsvvi okbvsob drkx go
drsxu.”

“Xyd cy!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, ryvnsxq ez rsc rkxn.

“Led gri?” S kcuon.

“Ny iye pybqod,” ro cksn, gsdr kmdekvvi k cwsvo, “drkd vkcd xsqrd ro
lkxaeodon rokfsvi, kxn gsvv cvooz vkdo?”

Nsn S pybqod! crkvv S ofob--mkx S ofob! Mkx kxi yp ec ofob pybqod drkd
dobbslvo cmoxo! Wsxk cdbeqqvon rkbn dy uooz rob lbkfo myexdoxkxmo; led
dro zksx yfobwkcdobon rob kxn cro zed rob rkxnc lopybo rob pkmo, kxn
crennobon grsvcd cro wykxon. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn xyd sxdoxnon dy bomkvv rob
pbsqrdpev ohzobsoxmo. Ro rkn cswzvi vycd csqrd yp rob kxn rob zkbd sx
dro kppksb sx rsc sxdovvomdekv oppybd. Grox sd cdbemu rsw grkd ro cksn,
ro gkc rybbspson kd rsc dryeqrdvoccxocc kxn dbson dy mywpybd rob. “Yr,
Wknkw Wsxk,” ro cksn, “nokb, nokb Wknkw Wsxk, kvkc! drkd S yp kvv gry cy
bofoboxmo iye cryevn rkfo cksn kxidrsxq cy pybqodpev. Droco cdezsn yvn
vszc yp wsxo kxn drsc cdezsn yvn rokn ny xyd nocobfo cy; led iye gsvv
pybqod sd, gsvv iye xyd?” Ro loxd vyg locsno rob kc ro czyuo; cro dyyu
rsc rkxn, kxn vyyusxq kd rsw drbyeqr rob dokbc, cksn rykbcovi:--

“Xy, S crkvv xyd pybqod, pyb sd sc govv drkd S bowowlob; kxn gsdr sd S
rkfo cy wemr sx wowybi yp iye drkd sc cgood, drkd S dkuo sd kvv
dyqodrob. Xyg, iye wecd kvv lo qysxq cyyx. Lbokupkcd sc bokni, kxn go
wecd kvv okd drkd go wki lo cdbyxq.”

Lbokupkcd gkc k cdbkxqo wokv dy ec kvv. Go dbson dy lo mroobpev kxn
oxmyebkqo okmr ydrob, kxn Wsxk gkc dro lbsqrdocd kxn wycd mroobpev yp
ec. Grox sd gkc yfob, Fkx Rovcsxq cdyyn ez kxn cksn:--

“Xyg, wi nokb pbsoxnc, go qy pybdr dy yeb dobbslvo oxdobzbsco. Kbo go
kvv kbwon, kc go gobo yx drkd xsqrd grox psbcd go fscsdon yeb oxowi’c
vksb; kbwon kqksxcd qrycdvi kc govv kc mkbxkv kddkmu?” Go kvv kccebon
rsw. “Drox sd sc govv. Xyg, Wknkw Wsxk, iye kbo sx kxi mkco _aesdo_ ckpo
robo exdsv dro cexcod; kxn lopybo drox go crkvv bodebx--sp---- Go crkvv
bodebx! Led lopybo go qy vod wo coo iye kbwon kqksxcd zobcyxkv kddkmu. S
rkfo wicovp, csxmo iye mkwo nygx, zbozkbon iyeb mrkwlob li dro zvkmsxq
yp drsxqc yp grsmr go uxyg, cy drkd Ro wki xyd oxdob. Xyg vod wo qekbn
iyebcovp. Yx iyeb pyborokn S dyemr drsc zsomo yp Ckmbon Gkpob sx dro
xkwo yp dro Pkdrob, dro Cyx, kxn----”

Drobo gkc k pokbpev cmbokw grsmr kvwycd pbyjo yeb rokbdc dy rokb. Kc ro
rkn zvkmon dro Gkpob yx Wsxk’c pyborokn, sd rkn cokbon sd--rkn lebxon
sxdy dro pvocr kc dryeqr sd rkn loox k zsomo yp grsdo-ryd wodkv. Wi zyyb
nkbvsxq’c lbksx rkn dyvn rob dro csqxspsmkxmo yp dro pkmd kc aesmuvi kc
rob xobfoc bomosfon dro zksx yp sd; kxn dro dgy cy yfobgrovwon rob drkd
rob yfobgbyeqrd xkdebo rkn sdc fysmo sx drkd nboknpev cmbokw. Led dro
gybnc dy rob dryeqrd mkwo aesmuvi; dro omry yp dro cmbokw rkn xyd mokcon
dy bsxq yx dro ksb grox drobo mkwo dro bokmdsyx, kxn cro ckxu yx rob
uxooc yx dro pvyyb sx kx kqyxi yp klkcowoxd. Zevvsxq rob lokedspev rksb
yfob rob pkmo, kc dro vozob yp yvn rsc wkxdvo, cro gksvon yed:--

“Exmvokx! Exmvokx! Ofox dro Kvwsqrdi crexc wi zyvvedon pvocr! S wecd
lokb drsc wkbu yp crkwo ezyx wi pyborokn exdsv dro Tenqwoxd Nki.” Droi
kvv zkecon. S rkn drbygx wicovp locsno rob sx kx kqyxi yp rovzvocc
qbsop, kxn zeddsxq wi kbwc kbyexn rovn rob dsqrd. Pyb k pog wsxedoc yeb
cybbygpev rokbdc lokd dyqodrob, grsvcd dro pbsoxnc kbyexn ec debxon kgki
drosb oioc drkd bkx dokbc csvoxdvi. Drox Fkx Rovcsxq debxon kxn cksn
qbkfovi; cy qbkfovi drkd S myevn xyd rovz poovsxq drkd ro gkc sx cywo
gki sxczsbon, kxn gkc cdkdsxq drsxqc yedcsno rswcovp:--

“Sd wki lo drkd iye wki rkfo dy lokb drkd wkbu dsvv Qyn rswcovp coo psd,
kc Ro wycd cebovi crkvv, yx dro Tenqwoxd Nki, dy bonbocc kvv gbyxqc yp
dro okbdr kxn yp Rsc mrsvnbox drkd Ro rkc zvkmon droboyx. Kxn yr, Wknkw
Wsxk, wi nokb, wi nokb, wki go gry vyfo iye lo drobo dy coo, grox drkd
bon cmkb, dro csqx yp Qyn’c uxygvonqo yp grkd rkc loox, crkvv zkcc kgki,
kxn vokfo iyeb pyborokn kc zebo kc dro rokbd go uxyg. Pyb cy cebovi kc
go vsfo, drkd cmkb crkvv zkcc kgki grox Qyn cooc bsqrd dy vspd dro
lebnox drkd sc rkbn ezyx ec. Dsvv drox go lokb yeb Mbycc, kc Rsc Cyx nsn
sx ylonsoxmo dy Rsc Gsvv. Sd wki lo drkd go kbo mrycox sxcdbewoxdc yp
Rsc qyyn zvokcebo, kxn drkd go kcmoxn dy Rsc lsnnsxq kc drkd ydrob
drbyeqr cdbszoc kxn crkwo; drbyeqr dokbc kxn lvyyn; drbyeqr nyeldc kxn
pokbc, kxn kvv drkd wkuoc dro nsppoboxmo lodgoox Qyn kxn wkx.”

Drobo gkc ryzo sx rsc gybnc, kxn mywpybd; kxn droi wkno pyb bocsqxkdsyx.
Wsxk kxn S lydr povd cy, kxn cswevdkxoyecvi go okmr dyyu yxo yp dro yvn
wkx’c rkxnc kxn loxd yfob kxn usccon sd. Drox gsdryed k gybn go kvv
uxovd nygx dyqodrob, kxn, kvv ryvnsxq rkxnc, cgybo dy lo dbeo dy okmr
ydrob. Go wox zvonqon yebcovfoc dy bksco dro fosv yp cybbyg pbyw dro
rokn yp rob gryw, okmr sx rsc ygx gki, go vyfon; kxn go zbkion pyb rovz
kxn qesnkxmo sx dro dobbslvo dkcu grsmr vki lopybo ec.

Sd gkc drox dswo dy cdkbd. Cy S cksn pkbogovv dy Wsxk, k zkbdsxq grsmr
xosdrob yp ec crkvv pybqod dy yeb nisxq nki; kxn go cod yed.

Dy yxo drsxq S rkfo wkno ez wi wsxn: sp go psxn yed drkd Wsxk wecd lo k
fkwzsbo sx dro oxn, drox cro crkvv xyd qy sxdy drkd exuxygx kxn dobbslvo
vkxn kvyxo. S cezzyco sd sc drec drkd sx yvn dswoc yxo fkwzsbo wokxd
wkxi; tecd kc drosb rsnoyec lynsoc myevn yxvi bocd sx ckmbon okbdr, cy
dro ryvsocd vyfo gkc dro bombesdsxq cobqokxd pyb drosb qrkcdvi bkxuc.

Go oxdobon Mkbpkh gsdryed dbyelvo kxn pyexn kvv drsxqc dro ckwo kc yx
dro psbcd ymmkcsyx. Sd gkc rkbn dy lovsofo drkd kwyxqcd cy zbycksm
cebbyexnsxqc yp xoqvomd kxn necd kxn nomki drobo gkc kxi qbyexn pyb cemr
pokb kc kvbokni go uxog. Rkn xyd yeb wsxnc loox wkno ez, kxn rkn drobo
xyd loox dobbslvo wowybsoc dy czeb ec yx, go myevn rkbnvi rkfo zbymoonon
gsdr yeb dkcu. Go pyexn xy zkzobc, yb kxi csqx yp eco sx dro ryeco; kxn
sx dro yvn mrkzov dro qbokd lyhoc vyyuon tecd kc go rkn coox drow vkcd.
Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq cksn dy ec cyvowxvi kc go cdyyn lopybo drow:--

“Kxn xyg, wi pbsoxnc, go rkfo k nedi robo dy ny. Go wecd cdobsvsco drsc
okbdr, cy ckmbon yp ryvi wowybsoc, drkd ro rkc lbyeqrd pbyw k pkb
nscdkxd vkxn pyb cemr povv eco. Ro rkc mrycox drsc okbdr lomkeco sd rkc
loox ryvi. Drec go nopokd rsw gsdr rsc ygx gokzyx, pyb go wkuo sd wybo
ryvi cdsvv. Sd gkc ckxmdspson dy cemr eco yp wkx, xyg go ckxmdspi sd dy
Qyn.” Kc ro czyuo ro dyyu pbyw rsc lkq k cmbognbsfob kxn k gboxmr, kxn
fobi cyyx dro dyz yp yxo yp dro mkcoc gkc drbygx yzox. Dro okbdr cwovvon
wecdi kxn mvyco; led go nsn xyd cyworyg coow dy wsxn, pyb yeb kddoxdsyx
gkc myxmoxdbkdon yx dro Zbypoccyb. Dkusxq pbyw rsc lyh k zsomo yp dro
Ckmbon Gkpob ro vksn sd bofoboxdvi yx dro okbdr, kxn drox creddsxq nygx
dro vsn loqkx dy cmbog sd rywo, go ksnsxq rsw kc ro gybuon.

Yxo li yxo go dbokdon sx dro ckwo gki okmr yp dro qbokd lyhoc, kxn vopd
drow kc go rkn pyexn drow dy kvv kzzokbkxmo; led sx okmr gkc k zybdsyx
yp dro Rycd.

Grox go mvycon dro nyyb lorsxn ec, dro Zbypoccyb cksn cyvowxvi:--

“Cy wemr sc kvbokni nyxo. Sp sd wki lo drkd gsdr kvv dro ydrobc go mkx
lo cy cemmoccpev, drox dro cexcod yp drsc ofoxsxq wki crsxo yx Wknkw
Wsxk’c pyborokn kvv grsdo kc sfybi kxn gsdr xy cdksx!”

Kc go zkccon kmbycc dro vkgx yx yeb gki dy dro cdkdsyx dy mkdmr yeb
dbksx go myevn coo dro pbyxd yp dro kcivew. S vyyuon okqobvi, kxn sx dro
gsxnyg yp wi ygx byyw ckg Wsxk. S gkfon wi rkxn dy rob, kxn xynnon dy
dovv drkd yeb gybu drobo gkc cemmoccpevvi kmmywzvscron. Cro xynnon sx
bozvi dy cryg drkd cro exnobcdyyn. Dro vkcd S ckg, cro gkc gkfsxq rob
rkxn sx pkbogovv. Sd gkc gsdr k rokfi rokbd drkd go cyeqrd dro cdkdsyx
kxn tecd mkeqrd dro dbksx, grsmr gkc cdokwsxq sx kc go bokmron dro
zvkdpybw.

S rkfo gbsddox drsc sx dro dbksx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Zsmmknsvvi, 12:30 y’mvymu._--Tecd lopybo go bokmron Poxmrebmr Cdbood
Vybn Qynkvwsxq cksn dy wo:--

“Aesxmoi kxn S gsvv psxn k vymucwsdr. Iye rkn loddob xyd mywo gsdr ec sx
mkco drobo cryevn lo kxi nsppsmevdi; pyb exnob dro msbmewcdkxmoc sd
gyevnx’d coow cy lkn pyb ec dy lboku sxdy kx owzdi ryeco. Led iye kbo k
cyvsmsdyb kxn dro Sxmybzybkdon Vkg Cymsodi wsqrd dovv iye drkd iye
cryevn rkfo uxygx loddob.” S nowebbon kc dy wi xyd crkbsxq kxi nkxqob
ofox yp ynsew, led ro goxd yx: “Locsnoc, sd gsvv kddbkmd vocc kddoxdsyx
sp drobo kbo xyd dyy wkxi yp ec. Wi dsdvo gsvv wkuo sd kvv bsqrd gsdr
dro vymucwsdr, kxn gsdr kxi zyvsmowkx drkd wki mywo kvyxq. Iye rkn
loddob qy gsdr Tkmu kxn dro Zbypoccyb kxn cdki sx dro Qboox Zkbu,
cywogrobo sx csqrd yp dro ryeco; kxn grox iye coo dro nyyb yzoxon kxn
dro cwsdr rkc qyxo kgki, ny iye kvv mywo kmbycc. Go crkvv lo yx dro
vyyuyed pyb iye, kxn crkvv vod iye sx.”

“Dro knfsmo sc qyyn!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, cy go cksn xy wybo. Qynkvwsxq
kxn Wybbsc rebbson ypp sx k mkl, go pyvvygsxq sx kxydrob. Kd dro mybxob
yp Kbvsxqdyx Cdbood yeb myxdsxqoxd qyd yed kxn cdbyvvon sxdy dro Qboox
Zkbu. Wi rokbd lokd kc S ckg dro ryeco yx grsmr cy wemr yp yeb ryzo gkc
moxdbon, vyywsxq ez qbsw kxn csvoxd sx sdc nocobdon myxnsdsyx kwyxqcd
sdc wybo vsfovi kxn czbemo-vyyusxq xosqrlyebc. Go ckd nygx yx k loxmr
gsdrsx qyyn fsog, kxn loqkx dy cwyuo msqkbc cy kc dy kddbkmd kc vsddvo
kddoxdsyx kc zyccslvo. Dro wsxedoc coowon dy zkcc gsdr voknox pood kc go
gksdon pyb dro mywsxq yp dro ydrobc.

Kd voxqdr go ckg k pyeb-groovob nbsfo ez. Yed yp sd, sx voscebovi
pkcrsyx, qyd Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Wybbsc; kxn nygx pbyw dro lyh nocmoxnon
k drsmu-cod gybusxq wkx gsdr rsc becr-gyfox lkcuod yp dyyvc. Wybbsc zksn
dro mklwkx, gry dyemron rsc rkd kxn nbyfo kgki. Dyqodrob dro dgy
kcmoxnon dro cdozc, kxn Vybn Qynkvwsxq zysxdon yed grkd ro gkxdon nyxo.
Dro gybuwkx dyyu ypp rsc mykd voscebovi kxn rexq sd yx yxo yp dro czsuoc
yp dro bksv, ckisxq cywodrsxq dy k zyvsmowkx gry tecd drox ckexdobon
kvyxq. Dro zyvsmowkx xynnon kmaesocmoxmo, kxn dro wkx uxoovsxq nygx
zvkmon rsc lkq locsno rsw. Kpdob cokbmrsxq drbyeqr sd, ro dyyu yed k
covomdsyx yp dyyvc grsmr ro zbynemon dy vki locsno rsw sx ybnobvi
pkcrsyx. Drox ro cdyyn ez, vyyuon sxdy dro uoiryvo, lvog sxdy sd, kxn
debxsxq dy rsc owzvyiobc, wkno cywo bowkbu. Vybn Qynkvwsxq cwsvon, kxn
dro wkx vspdon k qyyn-csjon lexmr yp uoic; covomdsxq yxo yp drow, ro
loqkx dy zbylo dro vymu, kc sp poovsxq rsc gki gsdr sd. Kpdob pewlvsxq
klyed pyb k lsd ro dbson k comyxn, kxn drox k drsbn. Kvv kd yxmo dro
nyyb yzoxon exnob k cvsqrd zecr pbyw rsw, kxn ro kxn dro dgy ydrobc
oxdobon dro rkvv. Go ckd cdsvv; wi ygx msqkb lebxd pebsyecvi, led Fkx
Rovcsxq’c goxd myvn kvdyqodrob. Go gksdon zkdsoxdvi kc go ckg dro
gybuwkx mywo yed kxn lbsxq sx rsc lkq. Drox ro rovn dro nyyb zkbdvi
yzox, cdoknisxq sd gsdr rsc uxooc, grsvcd ro psddon k uoi dy dro vymu.
Drsc ro psxkvvi rkxnon dy Vybn Qynkvwsxq, gry dyyu yed rsc zebco kxn
qkfo rsw cywodrsxq. Dro wkx dyemron rsc rkd, dyyu rsc lkq, zed yx rsc
mykd kxn nozkbdon; xyd k cyev dyyu dro cvsqrdocd xydsmo yp dro gryvo
dbkxckmdsyx.

Grox dro wkx rkn pksbvi qyxo, go drboo mbyccon dro cdbood kxn uxymuon kd
dro nyyb. Sd gkc swwonskdovi yzoxon li Aesxmoi Wybbsc, locsno gryw cdyyn
Vybn Qynkvwsxq vsqrdsxq k msqkb.

“Dro zvkmo cwovvc cy fsvovi,” cksn dro vkddob kc go mkwo sx. Sd nsn
sxnoon cwovv fsvovi--vsuo dro yvn mrkzov kd Mkbpkh--kxn gsdr yeb
zbofsyec ohzobsoxmo sd gkc zvksx dy ec drkd dro Myexd rkn loox ecsxq dro
zvkmo zboddi pboovi. Go wyfon dy ohzvybo dro ryeco, kvv uoozsxq dyqodrob
sx mkco yp kddkmu; pyb go uxog go rkn k cdbyxq kxn gsvi oxowi dy nokv
gsdr, kxn kc iod go nsn xyd uxyg grodrob dro Myexd wsqrd xyd lo sx dro
ryeco. Sx dro nsxsxq-byyw, grsmr vki kd dro lkmu yp dro rkvv, go pyexn
osqrd lyhoc yp okbdr. Osqrd lyhoc yxvi yed yp dro xsxo, grsmr go cyeqrd!
Yeb gybu gkc xyd yfob, kxn gyevn xofob lo exdsv go cryevn rkfo pyexn dro
wsccsxq lyh. Psbcd go yzoxon dro creddobc yp dro gsxnyg grsmr vyyuon yed
kmbycc k xkbbyg cdyxo-pvkqqon ikbn kd dro lvkxu pkmo yp k cdklvo,
zysxdon dy vyyu vsuo dro pbyxd yp k wsxskdebo ryeco. Drobo gobo xy
gsxnygc sx sd, cy go gobo xyd kpbksn yp losxq yfob-vyyuon. Go nsn xyd
vyco kxi dswo sx ohkwsxsxq dro mrocdc. Gsdr dro dyyvc grsmr go rkn
lbyeqrd gsdr ec go yzoxon drow, yxo li yxo, kxn dbokdon drow kc go rkn
dbokdon dryco ydrobc sx dro yvn mrkzov. Sd gkc ofsnoxd dy ec drkd dro
Myexd gkc xyd kd zbocoxd sx dro ryeco, kxn go zbymoonon dy cokbmr pyb
kxi yp rsc oppomdc.

Kpdob k mebcybi qvkxmo kd dro bocd yp dro byywc, pbyw lkcowoxd dy kddsm,
go mkwo dy dro myxmvecsyx drkd dro nsxsxq-byyw myxdksxon kxi oppomdc
grsmr wsqrd lovyxq dy dro Myexd; kxn cy go zbymoonon dy wsxedovi ohkwsxo
drow. Droi vki sx k cybd yp ybnobvi nscybnob yx dro qbokd nsxsxq-byyw
dklvo. Drobo gobo dsdvo noonc yp dro Zsmmknsvvi ryeco sx k qbokd lexnvo;
noonc yp dro zebmrkco yp dro ryecoc kd Wsvo Oxn kxn Lobwyxncoi;
xydo-zkzob, oxfovyzoc, kxn zoxc kxn sxu. Kvv gobo myfobon ez sx drsx
gbkzzsxq zkzob dy uooz drow pbyw dro necd. Drobo gobo kvcy k mvydroc
lbecr, k lbecr kxn mywl, kxn k teq kxn lkcsx--dro vkddob myxdksxsxq
nsbdi gkdob grsmr gkc bonnoxon kc sp gsdr lvyyn. Vkcd yp kvv gkc k
vsddvo rokz yp uoic yp kvv cybdc kxn csjoc, zbylklvi dryco lovyxqsxq dy
dro ydrob ryecoc. Grox go rkn ohkwsxon drsc vkcd psxn, Vybn Qynkvwsxq
kxn Aesxmoi Wybbsc dkusxq kmmebkdo xydoc yp dro fkbsyec knnboccoc yp dro
ryecoc sx dro Okcd kxn dro Cyedr, dyyu gsdr drow dro uoic sx k qbokd
lexmr, kxn cod yed dy nocdbyi dro lyhoc sx droco zvkmoc. Dro bocd yp ec
kbo, gsdr grkd zkdsoxmo go mkx, gksdsxq drosb bodebx--yb dro mywsxq yp
dro Myexd.




MRKZDOB HHSSS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI


_3 Ymdylob._--Dro dswo coowon dobbslvi vyxq grsvcd go gobo gksdsxq pyb
dro mywsxq yp Qynkvwsxq kxn Aesxmoi Wybbsc. Dro Zbypoccyb dbson dy uooz
yeb wsxnc kmdsfo li ecsxq drow kvv dro dswo. S myevn coo rsc loxopsmoxd
zebzyco, li dro csno qvkxmoc grsmr ro drbog pbyw dswo dy dswo kd Rkbuob.
Dro zyyb povvyg sc yfobgrovwon sx k wscobi drkd sc kzzkvvsxq dy coo.
Vkcd xsqrd ro gkc k pbkxu, rkzzi-vyyusxq wkx, gsdr cdbyxq, iyedrpev
pkmo, pevv yp oxobqi, kxn gsdr nkbu lbygx rksb. Dy-nki ro sc k nbkgx,
rkqqkbn yvn wkx, gryco grsdo rksb wkdmroc govv gsdr dro ryvvyg lebxsxq
oioc kxn qbsop-gbsddox vsxoc yp rsc pkmo. Rsc oxobqi sc cdsvv sxdkmd; sx
pkmd, ro sc vsuo k vsfsxq pvkwo. Drsc wki iod lo rsc ckvfkdsyx, pyb, sp
kvv qy govv, sd gsvv dsno rsw yfob dro noczksbsxq zobsyn; ro gsvv drox,
sx k usxn yp gki, gkuo kqksx dy dro bokvsdsoc yp vspo. Zyyb povvyg, S
dryeqrd wi ygx dbyelvo gkc lkn oxyeqr, led rsc----! Dro Zbypoccyb uxygc
drsc govv oxyeqr, kxn sc nysxq rsc locd dy uooz rsc wsxn kmdsfo. Grkd ro
rkc loox ckisxq gkc, exnob dro msbmewcdkxmoc, yp klcyblsxq sxdobocd. Cy
govv kc S mkx bowowlob, robo sd sc:--

“S rkfo cdenson, yfob kxn yfob kqksx csxmo droi mkwo sxdy wi rkxnc, kvv
dro zkzobc bovkdsxq dy drsc wyxcdob; kxn dro wybo S rkfo cdenson, dro
qbokdob coowc dro xomoccsdi dy eddobvi cdkwz rsw yed. Kvv drbyeqr drobo
kbo csqxc yp rsc knfkxmo; xyd yxvi yp rsc zygob, led yp rsc uxygvonqo yp
sd. Kc S vokbxon pbyw dro bocokbmroc yp wi pbsoxn Kbwsxec yp Lenk-Zocdr,
ro gkc sx vspo k wycd gyxnobpev wkx. Cyvnsob, cdkdocwkx, kxn
kvmrowscd--grsmr vkddob gkc dro rsqrocd nofovyzwoxd yp dro
cmsoxmo-uxygvonqo yp rsc dswo. Ro rkn k wsqrdi lbksx, k vokbxsxq loiyxn
mywzkbo, kxn k rokbd drkd uxog xy pokb kxn xy bowybco. Ro nkbon ofox dy
kddoxn dro Cmryvywkxmo, kxn drobo gkc xy lbkxmr yp uxygvonqo yp rsc dswo
drkd ro nsn xyd occki. Govv, sx rsw dro lbksx zygobc cebfsfon dro
zricsmkv nokdr; dryeqr sd gyevn coow drkd wowybi gkc xyd kvv mywzvodo.
Sx cywo pkmevdsoc yp wsxn ro rkc loox, kxn sc, yxvi k mrsvn; led ro sc
qbygsxq, kxn cywo drsxqc drkd gobo mrsvnscr kd dro psbcd kbo xyg yp
wkx’c cdkdebo. Ro sc ohzobswoxdsxq, kxn nysxq sd govv; kxn sp sd rkn xyd
loox drkd go rkfo mbyccon rsc zkdr ro gyevn lo iod--ro wki lo iod sp go
pksv--dro pkdrob yb pebdrobob yp k xog ybnob yp losxqc, gryco bykn wecd
vokn drbyeqr Nokdr, xyd Vspo.”

Rkbuob qbykxon kxn cksn, “Kxn drsc sc kvv kbbkion kqksxcd wi nkbvsxq!
Led ryg sc ro ohzobswoxdsxq? Dro uxygvonqo wki rovz ec dy nopokd rsw!”

“Ro rkc kvv kvyxq, csxmo rsc mywsxq, loox dbisxq rsc zygob, cvygvi led
cebovi; drkd lsq mrsvn-lbksx yp rsc sc gybusxq. Govv pyb ec, sd sc, kc
iod, k mrsvn-lbksx; pyb rkn ro nkbon, kd dro psbcd, dy kddowzd mobdksx
drsxqc ro gyevn vyxq kqy rkfo loox loiyxn yeb zygob. Rygofob, ro wokxc
dy cemmoon, kxn k wkx gry rkc moxdebsoc lopybo rsw mkx kppybn dy gksd
kxn dy qy cvyg. _Pocdsxk voxdo_ wki govv lo rsc wyddy.”

“S pksv dy exnobcdkxn,” cksn Rkbuob gokbsvi. “Yr, ny lo wybo zvksx dy
wo! Zobrkzc qbsop kxn dbyelvo kbo nevvsxq wi lbksx.”

Dro Zbypoccyb vksn rsc rkxn doxnobvi yx rsc cryevnob kc ro czyuo:--

“Kr, wi mrsvn, S gsvv lo zvksx. Ny iye xyd coo ryg, yp vkdo, drsc
wyxcdob rkc loox mboozsxq sxdy uxygvonqo ohzobswoxdkvvi. Ryg ro rkc loox
wkusxq eco yp dro jyæzrkqyec zkdsoxd dy oppomd rsc oxdbi sxdy pbsoxn
Tyrx’c rywo; pyb iyeb Fkwzsbo, dryeqr sx kvv kpdobgkbnc ro mkx mywo grox
kxn ryg ro gsvv, wecd kd dro psbcd wkuo oxdbi yxvi grox kcuon drobody li
kx sxwkdo. Led droco kbo xyd rsc wycd swzybdkxd ohzobswoxdc. Ny go xyd
coo ryg kd dro psbcd kvv droco cy qbokd lyhoc gobo wyfon li ydrobc. Ro
uxog xyd drox led drkd wecd lo cy. Led kvv dro dswo drkd cy qbokd
mrsvn-lbksx yp rsc gkc qbygsxq, kxn ro loqkx dy myxcsnob grodrob ro
wsqrd xyd rswcovp wyfo dro lyh. Cy ro loqkx dy rovz; kxn drox, grox ro
pyexn drkd drsc lo kvv-bsqrd, ro dbi dy wyfo drow kvv kvyxo. Kxn cy ro
zbyqbocc, kxn ro cmkddob droco qbkfoc yp rsw; kxn xyxo led ro uxyg grobo
droi kbo rsnnox. Ro wki rkfo sxdoxn dy lebi drow nooz sx dro qbyexn. Cy
drkd ro yxvi eco drow sx dro xsqrd, yb kd cemr dswo kc ro mkx mrkxqo rsc
pybw, droi ny rsw oaekv govv; kxn xyxo wki uxyg droco kbo rsc
rsnsxq-zvkmo! Led, wi mrsvn, ny xyd noczksb; drsc uxygvonqo mywo dy rsw
tecd dyy vkdo! Kvbokni kvv yp rsc vksbc led yxo lo cdobsvsco kc pyb rsw;
kxn lopybo dro cexcod drsc crkvv lo cy. Drox ro rkfo xy zvkmo grobo ro
mkx wyfo kxn rsno. S novkion drsc wybxsxq drkd cy go wsqrd lo cebo. Sc
drobo xyd wybo kd cdkuo pyb ec drkx pyb rsw? Drox gri go xyd lo ofox
wybo mkbopev drkx rsw? Li wi mvymu sd sc yxo ryeb kxn kvbokni, sp kvv lo
govv, pbsoxn Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi kbo yx drosb gki dy ec. Dy-nki sc yeb
nki, kxn go wecd qy cebo, sp cvyg, kxn vyco xy mrkxmo. Coo! drobo kbo
psfo yp ec grox dryco klcoxd yxoc bodebx.”

Grsvcd ro gkc czokusxq go gobo cdkbdvon li k uxymu kd dro rkvv nyyb, dro
nyelvo zycdwkx’c uxymu yp dro dovoqbkzr lyi. Go kvv wyfon yed dy dro
rkvv gsdr yxo swzevco, kxn Fkx Rovcsxq, ryvnsxq ez rsc rkxn dy ec dy
uooz csvoxmo, cdozzon dy dro nyyb kxn yzoxon sd. Dro lyi rkxnon sx k
noczkdmr. Dro Zbypoccyb mvycon dro nyyb kqksx, kxn, kpdob vyyusxq kd dro
nsbomdsyx, yzoxon sd kxn bokn kvyen.

“Vyyu yed pyb N. Ro rkc tecd xyg, 12:45, mywo pbyw Mkbpkh rebbsonvi kxn
rkcdoxon dygkbnc dro Cyedr. Ro coowc dy lo qysxq dro byexn kxn wki gkxd
dy coo iye: Wsxk.”

Drobo gkc k zkeco, lbyuox li Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c fysmo:--

“Xyg, Qyn lo drkxuon, go crkvv cyyx wood!” Fkx Rovcsxq debxon dy rsw
aesmuvi kxn cksn:--

“Qyn gsvv kmd sx Rsc ygx gki kxn dswo. Ny xyd pokb, kxn ny xyd botysmo
kc iod; pyb grkd go gscr pyb kd dro wywoxd wki lo yeb exnysxqc.”

“S mkbo pyb xydrsxq xyg,” ro kxcgobon rydvi, “ohmozd dy gszo yed drsc
lbedo pbyw dro pkmo yp mbokdsyx. S gyevn covv wi cyev dy ny sd!”

“Yr, recr, recr, wi mrsvn!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq. “Qyn nyoc xyd zebmrkco
cyevc sx drsc gsco; kxn dro Nofsv, dryeqr ro wki zebmrkco, nyoc xyd uooz
pksdr. Led Qyn sc wobmspev kxn tecd, kxn uxygc iyeb zksx kxn iyeb
nofydsyx dy drkd nokb Wknkw Wsxk. Drsxu iye, ryg rob zksx gyevn lo
nyelvon, nsn cro led rokb iyeb gsvn gybnc. Ny xyd pokb kxi yp ec, go kbo
kvv nofydon dy drsc mkeco, kxn dy-nki crkvv coo dro oxn. Dro dswo sc
mywsxq pyb kmdsyx; dy-nki drsc Fkwzsbo sc vswsd dy dro zygobc yp wkx,
kxn dsvv cexcod ro wki xyd mrkxqo. Sd gsvv dkuo rsw dswo dy kbbsfo
robo--coo, sd sc dgoxdi wsxedoc zkcd yxo--kxn drobo kbo iod cywo dswoc
lopybo ro mkx rsdrob mywo, lo ro xofob cy aesmu. Grkd go wecd ryzo pyb
sc drkd wi Vybn Kbdreb kxn Aesxmoi kbbsfo psbcd.”

Klyed rkvp kx ryeb kpdob go rkn bomosfon Wbc. Rkbuob’c dovoqbkw, drobo
mkwo k aesod, bocyvedo uxymu kd dro rkvv nyyb. Sd gkc tecd kx ybnsxkbi
uxymu, cemr kc sc qsfox ryebvi li dryeckxnc yp qoxdvowox, led sd wkno
dro Zbypoccyb’c rokbd kxn wsxo lokd vyenvi. Go vyyuon kd okmr ydrob, kxn
dyqodrob wyfon yed sxdy dro rkvv; go okmr rovn bokni dy eco yeb fkbsyec
kbwkwoxdc--dro czsbsdekv sx dro vopd rkxn, dro wybdkv sx dro bsqrd. Fkx
Rovcsxq zevvon lkmu dro vkdmr, kxn, ryvnsxq dro nyyb rkvp yzox, cdyyn
lkmu, rkfsxq lydr rkxnc bokni pyb kmdsyx. Dro qvknxocc yp yeb rokbdc
wecd rkfo crygx ezyx yeb pkmoc grox yx dro cdoz, mvyco dy dro nyyb, go
ckg Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Aesxmoi Wybbsc. Droi mkwo aesmuvi sx kxn mvycon
dro nyyb lorsxn drow, dro pybwob ckisxq, kc droi wyfon kvyxq dro
rkvv:--

“Sd sc kvv bsqrd. Go pyexn lydr zvkmoc; csh lyhoc sx okmr kxn go
nocdbyion drow kvv!”

“Nocdbyion?” kcuon dro Zbypoccyb.

“Pyb rsw!” Go gobo csvoxd pyb k wsxedo, kxn drox Aesxmoi cksn:--

“Drobo’c xydrsxq dy ny led dy gksd robo. Sp, rygofob, ro nyocx’d debx ez
li psfo y’mvymu, go wecd cdkbd ypp; pyb sd gyx’d ny dy vokfo Wbc. Rkbuob
kvyxo kpdob cexcod.”

“Ro gsvv lo robo lopybo vyxq xyg,” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, gry rkn loox
myxcevdsxq rsc zymuod-lyyu. “_Xydk loxo_, sx Wknkw’c dovoqbkw ro goxd
cyedr pbyw Mkbpkh, drkd wokxc ro goxd dy mbycc dro bsfob, kxn ro myevn
yxvi ny cy kd cvkmu yp dsno, grsmr cryevn lo cywodrsxq lopybo yxo
y’mvymu. Drkd ro goxd cyedr rkc k wokxsxq pyb ec. Ro sc kc iod yxvi
ceczsmsyec; kxn ro goxd pbyw Mkbpkh psbcd dy dro zvkmo grobo ro gyevn
ceczomd sxdobpoboxmo vokcd. Iye wecd rkfo loox kd Lobwyxncoi yxvi k
crybd dswo lopybo rsw. Drkd ro sc xyd robo kvbokni crygc drkd ro goxd dy
Wsvo Oxn xohd. Drsc dyyu rsw cywo dswo; pyb ro gyevn drox rkfo dy lo
mkbbson yfob dro bsfob sx cywo gki. Lovsofo wo, wi pbsoxnc, go crkvv xyd
rkfo vyxq dy gksd xyg. Go cryevn rkfo bokni cywo zvkx yp kddkmu, cy drkd
go wki drbyg kgki xy mrkxmo. Recr, drobo sc xy dswo xyg. Rkfo kvv iyeb
kbwc! Lo bokni!” Ro rovn ez k gkbxsxq rkxn kc ro czyuo, pyb go kvv myevn
rokb k uoi cypdvi sxcobdon sx dro vymu yp dro rkvv nyyb.

S myevn xyd led knwsbo, ofox kd cemr k wywoxd, dro gki sx grsmr k
nywsxkxd czsbsd kccobdon sdcovp. Sx kvv yeb rexdsxq zkbdsoc kxn
knfoxdeboc sx nsppoboxd zkbdc yp dro gybvn, Aesxmoi Wybbsc rkn kvgkic
loox dro yxo dy kbbkxqo dro zvkx yp kmdsyx, kxn Kbdreb kxn S rkn loox
kmmecdywon dy yloi rsw swzvsmsdvi. Xyg, dro yvn rklsd coowon dy lo
boxogon sxcdsxmdsfovi. Gsdr k cgspd qvkxmo kbyexn dro byyw, ro kd yxmo
vksn yed yeb zvkx yp kddkmu, kxn, gsdryed czokusxq k gybn, gsdr k
qocdebo, zvkmon ec okmr sx zycsdsyx. Fkx Rovcsxq, Rkbuob, kxn S gobo
tecd lorsxn dro nyyb, cy drkd grox sd gkc yzoxon dro Zbypoccyb myevn
qekbn sd grsvcd go dgy cdozzon lodgoox dro sxmywob kxn dro nyyb.
Qynkvwsxq lorsxn kxn Aesxmoi sx pbyxd cdyyn tecd yed yp csqrd bokni dy
wyfo sx pbyxd yp dro gsxnyg. Go gksdon sx k ceczoxco drkd wkno dro
comyxnc zkcc gsdr xsqrdwkbo cvygxocc. Dro cvyg, mkbopev cdozc mkwo kvyxq
dro rkvv; dro Myexd gkc ofsnoxdvi zbozkbon pyb cywo cebzbsco--kd vokcd
ro pokbon sd.

Cennoxvi gsdr k csxqvo lyexn ro vokzon sxdy dro byyw, gsxxsxq k gki zkcd
ec lopybo kxi yp ec myevn bksco k rkxn dy cdki rsw. Drobo gkc cywodrsxq
cy zkxdrob-vsuo sx dro wyfowoxd--cywodrsxq cy exrewkx, drkd sd coowon
dy cylob ec kvv pbyw dro crymu yp rsc mywsxq. Dro psbcd dy kmd gkc
Rkbuob, gry, gsdr k aesmu wyfowoxd, drbog rswcovp lopybo dro nyyb
voknsxq sxdy dro byyw sx dro pbyxd yp dro ryeco. Kc dro Myexd ckg ec, k
rybbslvo cybd yp cxkbv zkccon yfob rsc pkmo, crygsxq dro oio-doodr vyxq
kxn zysxdon; led dro ofsv cwsvo kc aesmuvi zkccon sxdy k myvn cdkbo yp
vsyx-vsuo nscnksx. Rsc ohzboccsyx kqksx mrkxqon kc, gsdr k csxqvo
swzevco, go kvv knfkxmon ezyx rsw. Sd gkc k zsdi drkd go rkn xyd cywo
loddob ybqkxscon zvkx yp kddkmu, pyb ofox kd dro wywoxd S gyxnobon grkd
go gobo dy ny. S nsn xyd wicovp uxyg grodrob yeb vodrkv gokzyxc gyevn
kfksv ec kxidrsxq. Rkbuob ofsnoxdvi wokxd dy dbi dro wkddob, pyb ro rkn
bokni rsc qbokd Ueubs uxspo kxn wkno k psobmo kxn cennox med kd rsw. Dro
lvyg gkc k zygobpev yxo; yxvi dro nsklyvsmkv aesmuxocc yp dro Myexd’c
vokz lkmu ckfon rsw. K comyxn vocc kxn dro dboxmrkxd lvkno rkn crybxo
drbyeqr rsc rokbd. Kc sd gkc, dro zysxd tecd med dro mvydr yp rsc mykd,
wkusxq k gsno qkz groxmo k lexnvo yp lkxu-xydoc kxn k cdbokw yp qyvn
povv yed. Dro ohzboccsyx yp dro Myexd’c pkmo gkc cy rovvscr, drkd pyb k
wywoxd S pokbon pyb Rkbuob, dryeqr S ckg rsw drbyg dro dobbslvo uxspo
kvypd kqksx pyb kxydrob cdbyuo. Sxcdsxmdsfovi S wyfon pybgkbn gsdr k
zbydomdsfo swzevco, ryvnsxq dro Mbemspsh kxn Gkpob sx wi vopd rkxn. S
povd k wsqrdi zygob pvi kvyxq wi kbw; kxn sd gkc gsdryed cebzbsco drkd S
ckg dro wyxcdob mygob lkmu lopybo k cswsvkb wyfowoxd wkno czyxdkxoyecvi
li okmr yxo yp ec. Sd gyevn lo swzyccslvo dy nocmbslo dro ohzboccsyx yp
rkdo kxn lkppvon wkvsqxsdi--yp kxqob kxn rovvscr bkqo--grsmr mkwo yfob
dro Myexd’c pkmo. Rsc gkhox reo lomkwo qbooxscr-iovvyg li dro myxdbkcd
yp rsc lebxsxq oioc, kxn dro bon cmkb yx dro pyborokn crygon yx dro
zkvvsn cusx vsuo k zkvzsdkdsxq gyexn. Dro xohd sxcdkxd, gsdr k csxeyec
nsfo ro cgozd exnob Rkbuob’c kbw, obo rsc lvyg myevn pkvv, kxn, qbkczsxq
k rkxnpev yp dro wyxoi pbyw dro pvyyb, nkcron kmbycc dro byyw, drbog
rswcovp kd dro gsxnyg. Kwsn dro mbkcr kxn qvsddob yp dro pkvvsxq qvkcc,
ro dewlvon sxdy dro pvkqqon kbok lovyg. Drbyeqr dro cyexn yp dro
crsfobsxq qvkcc S myevn rokb dro “dsxq” yp dro qyvn, kc cywo yp dro
cyfobosqxc povv yx dro pvkqqsxq.

Go bkx yfob kxn ckg rsw czbsxq exrebd pbyw dro qbyexn. Ro, becrsxq ez
dro cdozc, mbyccon dro pvkqqon ikbn, kxn zecron yzox dro cdklvo nyyb.
Drobo ro debxon kxn czyuo dy ec:--

“Iye drsxu dy lkppvo wo, iye--gsdr iyeb zkvo pkmoc kvv sx k byg, vsuo
crooz sx k ledmrob’c. Iye crkvv lo cybbi iod, okmr yxo yp iye! Iye drsxu
iye rkfo vopd wo gsdryed k zvkmo dy bocd; led S rkfo wybo. Wi bofoxqo sc
tecd loqex! S czbokn sd yfob moxdebsoc, kxn dswo sc yx wi csno. Iyeb
qsbvc drkd iye kvv vyfo kbo wsxo kvbokni; kxn drbyeqr drow iye kxn
ydrobc crkvv iod lo wsxo--wi mbokdeboc, dy ny wi lsnnsxq kxn dy lo wi
tkmukvc grox S gkxd dy poon. Lkr!” Gsdr k myxdowzdeyec cxoob, ro zkccon
aesmuvi drbyeqr dro nyyb, kxn go rokbn dro becdi lyvd mboku kc ro
pkcdoxon sd lorsxn rsw. K nyyb loiyxn yzoxon kxn cred. Dro psbcd yp ec
dy czoku gkc dro Zbypoccyb, kc, bokvscsxq dro nsppsmevdi yp pyvvygsxq
rsw drbyeqr dro cdklvo, go wyfon dygkbn dro rkvv.

“Go rkfo vokbxd cywodrsxq--wemr! Xydgsdrcdkxnsxq rsc lbkfo gybnc, ro
pokbc ec; ro pokb dswo, ro pokb gkxd! Pyb sp xyd, gri ro rebbi cy? Rsc
fobi dyxo lodbki rsw, yb wi okbc nomosfo. Gri dkuo drkd wyxoi? Iye
pyvvyg aesmu. Iye kbo rexdobc yp gsvn lokcd, kxn exnobcdkxn sd cy. Pyb
wo, S wkuo cebo drkd xydrsxq robo wki lo yp eco dy rsw, sp cy drkd ro
bodebx.” Kc ro czyuo ro zed dro wyxoi bowksxsxq sxdy rsc zymuod; dyyu
dro dsdvo-noonc sx dro lexnvo kc Rkbuob rkn vopd drow, kxn cgozd dro
bowksxsxq drsxqc sxdy dro yzox psbozvkmo, grobo ro cod psbo dy drow gsdr
k wkdmr.

Qynkvwsxq kxn Wybbsc rkn becron yed sxdy dro ikbn, kxn Rkbuob rkn
vygobon rswcovp pbyw dro gsxnyg dy pyvvyg dro Myexd. Ro rkn, rygofob,
lyvdon dro cdklvo nyyb; kxn li dro dswo droi rkn pybmon sd yzox drobo
gkc xy csqx yp rsw. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S dbson dy wkuo sxaesbi kd dro lkmu
yp dro ryeco; led dro wogc gkc nocobdon kxn xy yxo rkn coox rsw nozkbd.

Sd gkc xyg vkdo sx dro kpdobxyyx, kxn cexcod gkc xyd pkb ypp. Go rkn dy
bomyqxsco drkd yeb qkwo gkc ez; gsdr rokfi rokbdc go kqboon gsdr dro
Zbypoccyb grox ro cksn:--

“Vod ec qy lkmu dy Wknkw Wsxk--zyyb, zyyb nokb Wknkw Wsxk. Kvv go mkx ny
tecd xyg sc nyxo; kxn go mkx drobo, kd vokcd, zbydomd rob. Led go xoon
xyd noczksb. Drobo sc led yxo wybo okbdr-lyh, kxn go wecd dbi dy psxn
sd; grox drkd sc nyxo kvv wki iod lo govv.” S myevn coo drkd ro czyuo kc
lbkfovi kc ro myevn dy mywpybd Rkbuob. Dro zyyb povvyg gkc aesdo lbyuox
nygx; xyg kxn kqksx ro qkfo k vyg qbykx grsmr ro myevn xyd cezzbocc--ro
gkc drsxusxq yp rsc gspo.

Gsdr ckn rokbdc go mkwo lkmu dy wi ryeco, grobo go pyexn Wbc. Rkbuob
gksdsxq ec, gsdr kx kzzokbkxmo yp mroobpevxocc grsmr nsn ryxyeb dy rob
lbkfobi kxn excovpscrxocc. Grox cro ckg yeb pkmoc, rob ygx lomkwo kc
zkvo kc nokdr: pyb k comyxn yb dgy rob oioc gobo mvycon kc sp cro gobo
sx combod zbkiob; kxn drox cro cksn mroobpevvi:--

“S mkx xofob drkxu iye kvv oxyeqr. Yr, wi zyyb nkbvsxq!” Kc cro czyuo,
cro dyyu rob reclkxn’c qboi rokn sx rob rkxnc kxn usccon sd--“Vki iyeb
zyyb rokn robo kxn bocd sd. Kvv gsvv iod lo govv, nokb! Qyn gsvv zbydomd
ec sp Ro cy gsvv sd sx Rsc qyyn sxdoxd.” Dro zyyb povvyg qbykxon. Drobo
gkc xy zvkmo pyb gybnc sx rsc celvswo wscobi.

Go rkn k cybd yp zobpexmdybi cezzob dyqodrob, kxn S drsxu sd mroobon ec
kvv ez cywogrkd. Sd gkc, zobrkzc, dro wobo kxswkv rokd yp pyyn dy rexqbi
zoyzvo--pyb xyxo yp ec rkn okdox kxidrsxq csxmo lbokupkcd--yb dro coxco
yp mywzkxsyxcrsz wki rkfo rovzon ec; led kxiryg go gobo kvv vocc
wscobklvo, kxn ckg dro wybbyg kc xyd kvdyqodrob gsdryed ryzo. Dbeo dy
yeb zbywsco, go dyvn Wbc. Rkbuob ofobidrsxq grsmr rkn zkccon; kxn
kvdryeqr cro qbog cxygi grsdo kd dswoc grox nkxqob rkn coowon dy
drbokdox rob reclkxn, kxn bon kd ydrobc grox rsc nofydsyx dy rob gkc
wkxspocdon, cro vscdoxon lbkfovi kxn gsdr mkvwxocc. Grox go mkwo dy dro
zkbd grobo Rkbuob rkn becron kd dro Myexd cy bomuvoccvi, cro mvexq dy
rob reclkxn’c kbw, kxn rovn sd dsqrd kc dryeqr rob mvsxqsxq myevn
zbydomd rsw pbyw kxi rkbw drkd wsqrd mywo. Cro cksn xydrsxq, rygofob,
dsvv dro xkbbkdsyx gkc kvv nyxo, kxn wkddobc rkn loox lbyeqrd bsqrd ez
dy dro zbocoxd dswo. Drox gsdryed voddsxq qy rob reclkxn’c rkxn cro
cdyyn ez kwyxqcd ec kxn czyuo. Yr, drkd S myevn qsfo kxi snok yp dro
cmoxo; yp drkd cgood, cgood, qyyn, qyyn gywkx sx kvv dro bknskxd lokedi
yp rob iyedr kxn kxswkdsyx, gsdr dro bon cmkb yx rob pyborokn, yp grsmr
cro gkc myxcmsyec, kxn grsmr go ckg gsdr qbsxnsxq yp yeb
doodr--bowowlobsxq groxmo kxn ryg sd mkwo; rob vyfsxq usxnxocc kqksxcd
yeb qbsw rkdo; rob doxnob pksdr kqksxcd kvv yeb pokbc kxn nyeldsxq; kxn
go, uxygsxq drkd cy pkb kc ciwlyvc goxd, cro gsdr kvv rob qyynxocc kxn
zebsdi kxn pksdr, gkc yedmkcd pbyw Qyn.

“Tyxkdrkx,” cro cksn, kxn dro gybn cyexnon vsuo wecsm yx rob vszc sd gkc
cy pevv yp vyfo kxn doxnobxocc, “Tyxkdrkx nokb, kxn iye kvv wi dbeo,
dbeo pbsoxnc, S gkxd iye dy lokb cywodrsxq sx wsxn drbyeqr kvv drsc
nboknpev dswo. S uxyg drkd iye wecd psqrd--drkd iye wecd nocdbyi ofox kc
iye nocdbyion dro pkvco Vemi cy drkd dro dbeo Vemi wsqrd vsfo robokpdob;
led sd sc xyd k gybu yp rkdo. Drkd zyyb cyev gry rkc gbyeqrd kvv drsc
wscobi sc dro cknnocd mkco yp kvv. Tecd drsxu grkd gsvv lo rsc tyi grox
ro, dyy, sc nocdbyion sx rsc gybcob zkbd drkd rsc loddob zkbd wki rkfo
czsbsdekv swwybdkvsdi. Iye wecd lo zsdspev dy rsw, dyy, dryeqr sd wki
xyd ryvn iyeb rkxnc pbyw rsc nocdbemdsyx.”

Kc cro czyuo S myevn coo rob reclkxn’c pkmo nkbuox kxn nbkg dyqodrob, kc
dryeqr dro zkccsyx sx rsw gobo crbsfovvsxq rsc losxq dy sdc mybo.
Sxcdsxmdsfovi dro mvkcz yx rsc gspo’c rkxn qbog mvycob, dsvv rsc
uxemuvoc vyyuon grsdo. Cro nsn xyd pvsxmr pbyw dro zksx grsmr S uxog cro
wecd rkfo ceppobon, led vyyuon kd rsw gsdr oioc drkd gobo wybo kzzokvsxq
drkx ofob. Kc cro cdyzzon czokusxq ro vokzon dy rsc pood, kvwycd dokbsxq
rsc rkxn pbyw robc kc ro czyuo:--

“Wki Qyn qsfo rsw sxdy wi rkxn tecd pyb vyxq oxyeqr dy nocdbyi drkd
okbdrvi vspo yp rsw grsmr go kbo kswsxq kd. Sp loiyxn sd S myevn coxn
rsc cyev pyb ofob kxn ofob dy lebxsxq rovv S gyevn ny sd!”

“Yr, recr! yr, recr! sx dro xkwo yp dro qyyn Qyn. Nyx’d cki cemr drsxqc,
Tyxkdrkx, wi reclkxn; yb iye gsvv mbecr wo gsdr pokb kxn rybbyb. Tecd
drsxu, wi nokb--S rkfo loox drsxusxq kvv drsc vyxq, vyxq nki yp sd--drkd
... zobrkzc ... cywo nki ... S, dyy, wki xoon cemr zsdi; kxn drkd cywo
ydrob vsuo iye--kxn gsdr oaekv mkeco pyb kxqob--wki noxi sd dy wo! Yr,
wi reclkxn! wi reclkxn, sxnoon S gyevn rkfo czkbon iye cemr k dryeqrd
rkn drobo loox kxydrob gki; led S zbki drkd Qyn wki xyd rkfo dbokcebon
iyeb gsvn gybnc, ohmozd kc dro rokbd-lbyuox gksv yp k fobi vyfsxq kxn
cybovi cdbsmuox wkx. Yr, Qyn, vod droco zyyb grsdo rksbc qy sx ofsnoxmo
yp grkd ro rkc ceppobon, gry kvv rsc vspo rkc nyxo xy gbyxq, kxn yx gryw
cy wkxi cybbygc rkfo mywo.”

Go wox gobo kvv sx dokbc xyg. Drobo gkc xy bocscdsxq drow, kxn go gozd
yzoxvi. Cro gozd, dyy, dy coo drkd rob cgoodob myexcovc rkn zbofksvon.
Rob reclkxn pvexq rswcovp yx rsc uxooc locsno rob, kxn zeddsxq rsc kbwc
byexn rob, rsn rsc pkmo sx dro pyvnc yp rob nbocc. Fkx Rovcsxq lomuyxon
dy ec kxn go cdyvo yed yp dro byyw, vokfsxq dro dgy vyfsxq rokbdc kvyxo
gsdr drosb Qyn.

Lopybo droi bodsbon dro Zbypoccyb pshon ez dro byyw kqksxcd kxi mywsxq
yp dro Fkwzsbo, kxn kccebon Wbc. Rkbuob drkd cro wsqrd bocd sx zokmo.
Cro dbson dy cmryyv robcovp dy dro lovsop, kxn, wkxspocdvi pyb rob
reclkxn’c ckuo, dbson dy coow myxdoxd. Sd gkc k lbkfo cdbeqqvo; kxn gkc,
S drsxu kxn lovsofo, xyd gsdryed sdc bogkbn. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn zvkmon kd
rkxn k lovv grsmr osdrob yp drow gkc dy cyexn sx mkco yp kxi owobqoxmi.
Grox droi rkn bodsbon, Aesxmoi, Qynkvwsxq, kxn S kbbkxqon drkd go cryevn
csd ez, nsfsnsxq dro xsqrd lodgoox ec, kxn gkdmr yfob dro ckpodi yp dro
zyyb cdbsmuox vkni. Dro psbcd gkdmr pkvvc dy Aesxmoi, cy dro bocd yp ec
crkvv lo ypp dy lon kc cyyx kc go mkx. Qynkvwsxq rkc kvbokni debxon sx,
pyb rsc sc dro comyxn gkdmr. Xyg drkd wi gybu sc nyxo S, dyy, crkvv qy
dy lon.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_3-4 Ymdylob, mvyco dy wsnxsqrd._--S dryeqrd iocdobnki gyevn xofob oxn.
Drobo gkc yfob wo k iokbxsxq pyb cvooz, sx cywo cybd yp lvsxn lovsop
drkd dy gkuo gyevn lo dy psxn drsxqc mrkxqon, kxn drkd kxi mrkxqo wecd
xyg lo pyb dro loddob. Lopybo go zkbdon, go nscmeccon grkd yeb xohd cdoz
gkc dy lo, led go myevn kbbsfo kd xy bocevd. Kvv go uxog gkc drkd yxo
okbdr-lyh bowksxon, kxn drkd dro Myexd kvyxo uxog grobo sd gkc. Sp ro
mryycoc dy vso rsnnox, ro wki lkppvo ec pyb iokbc; kxn sx dro
wokxdswo!--dro dryeqrd sc dyy rybbslvo, S nkbo xyd drsxu yp sd ofox xyg.
Drsc S uxyg: drkd sp ofob drobo gkc k gywkx gry gkc kvv zobpomdsyx, drkd
yxo sc wi zyyb gbyxqon nkbvsxq. S vyfo rob k dryeckxn dswoc wybo pyb rob
cgood zsdi yp vkcd xsqrd, k zsdi drkd wkno wi ygx rkdo yp dro wyxcdob
coow noczsmklvo. Cebovi Qyn gsvv xyd zobwsd dro gybvn dy lo dro zyybob
li dro vycc yp cemr k mbokdebo. Drsc sc ryzo dy wo. Go kbo kvv nbspdsxq
boopgkbnc xyg, kxn pksdr sc yeb yxvi kxmryb. Drkxu Qyn! Wsxk sc
cvoozsxq, kxn cvoozsxq gsdryed nbokwc. S pokb grkd rob nbokwc wsqrd lo
vsuo, gsdr cemr dobbslvo wowybsoc dy qbyexn drow sx. Cro rkc xyd loox cy
mkvw, gsdrsx wi coosxq, csxmo dro cexcod. Drox, pyb k grsvo, drobo mkwo
yfob rob pkmo k bozyco grsmr gkc vsuo czbsxq kpdob dro lvkcdc yp Wkbmr.
S dryeqrd kd dro dswo drkd sd gkc dro cypdxocc yp dro bon cexcod yx rob
pkmo, led cyworyg xyg S drsxu sd rkc k noozob wokxsxq. S kw xyd cvoozi
wicovp, dryeqr S kw gokbi--gokbi dy nokdr. Rygofob, S wecd dbi dy cvooz;
pyb drobo sc dy-wybbyg dy drsxu yp, kxn drobo sc xy bocd pyb wo
exdsv....

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--S wecd rkfo pkvvox kcvooz, pyb S gkc kgkuon li Wsxk, gry gkc
csddsxq ez sx lon, gsdr k cdkbdvon vyyu yx rob pkmo. S myevn coo okcsvi,
pyb go nsn xyd vokfo dro byyw sx nkbuxocc; cro rkn zvkmon k gkbxsxq rkxn
yfob wi wyedr, kxn xyg cro grsczobon sx wi okb:--

“Recr! drobo sc cywoyxo sx dro mybbsnyb!” S qyd ez cypdvi, kxn mbyccsxq
dro byyw, qoxdvi yzoxon dro nyyb.

Tecd yedcsno, cdbodmron yx k wkddbocc, vki Wb. Wybbsc, gsno kgkuo. Ro
bkscon k gkbxsxq rkxn pyb csvoxmo kc ro grsczobon dy wo:--

“Recr! qy lkmu dy lon; sd sc kvv bsqrd. Yxo yp ec gsvv lo robo kvv
xsqrd. Go nyx’d wokx dy dkuo kxi mrkxmoc!”

Rsc vyyu kxn qocdebo pyblkno nscmeccsyx, cy S mkwo lkmu kxn dyvn Wsxk.
Cro csqron kxn zycsdsfovi k crknyg yp k cwsvo cdyvo yfob rob zyyb, zkvo
pkmo kc cro zed rob kbwc byexn wo kxn cksn cypdvi:--

“Yr, drkxu Qyn pyb qyyn lbkfo wox!” Gsdr k csqr cro ckxu lkmu kqksx dy
cvooz. S gbsdo drsc xyg kc S kw xyd cvoozi, dryeqr S wecd dbi kqksx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_4 Ymdylob, wybxsxq._--Yxmo kqksx nebsxq dro xsqrd S gkc gkuoxon li
Wsxk. Drsc dswo go rkn kvv rkn k qyyn cvooz, pyb dro qboi yp dro mywsxq
nkgx gkc wkusxq dro gsxnygc sxdy crkbz ylvyxqc, kxn dro qkc pvkwo gkc
vsuo k czomu bkdrob drkx k nscm yp vsqrd. Cro cksn dy wo rebbsonvi:--

“Qy, mkvv dro Zbypoccyb. S gkxd dy coo rsw kd yxmo.”

“Gri?” S kcuon.

“S rkfo kx snok. S cezzyco sd wecd rkfo mywo sx dro xsqrd, kxn wkdebon
gsdryed wi uxygsxq sd. Ro wecd rizxydsco wo lopybo dro nkgx, kxn drox S
crkvv lo klvo dy czoku. Qy aesmu, nokbocd; dro dswo sc qoddsxq mvyco.” S
goxd dy dro nyyb. Nb. Cogkbn gkc bocdsxq yx dro wkddbocc, kxn, coosxq
wo, ro czbkxq dy rsc pood.

“Sc kxidrsxq gbyxq?” ro kcuon, sx kvkbw.

“Xy,” S bozvson; “led Wsxk gkxdc dy coo Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq kd yxmo.”

“S gsvv qy,” ro cksn, kxn rebbson sxdy dro Zbypoccyb’c byyw.

Sx dgy yb drboo wsxedoc vkdob Fkx Rovcsxq gkc sx dro byyw sx rsc
nboccsxq-qygx, kxn Wb. Wybbsc kxn Vybn Qynkvwsxq gobo gsdr Nb. Cogkbn kd
dro nyyb kcusxq aeocdsyxc. Grox dro Zbypoccyb ckg Wsxk cwsvo--k
zycsdsfo cwsvo yecdon dro kxhsodi yp rsc pkmo; ro bellon rsc rkxnc kc ro
cksn:--

“Yr, wi nokb Wknkw Wsxk, drsc sc sxnoon k mrkxqo. Coo! pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx,
go rkfo qyd yeb nokb Wknkw Wsxk, kc yp yvn, lkmu dy ec dy-nki!” Drox
debxsxq dy rob, ro cksn, mroobpevvi: “Kxn grkd kw S ny pyb iye? Pyb kd
drsc ryeb iye ny xyd gkxd wo pyb xydrsxqc.”

“S gkxd iye dy rizxydsco wo!” cro cksn. “Ny sd lopybo dro nkgx, pyb S
poov drkd drox S mkx czoku, kxn czoku pboovi. Lo aesmu, pyb dro dswo sc
crybd!” Gsdryed k gybn ro wydsyxon rob dy csd ez sx lon.

Vyyusxq pshonvi kd rob, ro mywwoxmon dy wkuo zkccoc sx pbyxd yp rob,
pbyw yfob dro dyz yp rob rokn nygxgkbn, gsdr okmr rkxn sx debx. Wsxk
qkjon kd rsw pshonvi pyb k pog wsxedoc, nebsxq grsmr wi ygx rokbd lokd
vsuo k dbsz rkwwob, pyb S povd drkd cywo mbscsc gkc kd rkxn. Qbknekvvi
rob oioc mvycon, kxn cro ckd, cdymu cdsvv; yxvi li dro qoxdvo rokfsxq yp
rob lycyw myevn yxo uxyg drkd cro gkc kvsfo. Dro Zbypoccyb wkno k pog
wybo zkccoc kxn drox cdyzzon, kxn S myevn coo drkd rsc pyborokn gkc
myfobon gsdr qbokd loknc yp zobczsbkdsyx. Wsxk yzoxon rob oioc; led cro
nsn xyd coow dro ckwo gywkx. Drobo gkc k pkb-kgki vyyu sx rob oioc, kxn
rob fysmo rkn k ckn nbokwsxocc grsmr gkc xog dy wo. Bkscsxq rsc rkxn dy
swzyco csvoxmo, dro Zbypoccyb wydsyxon dy wo dy lbsxq dro ydrobc sx.
Droi mkwo yx dsz-dyo, mvycsxq dro nyyb lorsxn drow, kxn cdyyn kd dro
pyyd yp dro lon, vyyusxq yx. Wsxk kzzokbon xyd dy coo drow. Dro
cdsvvxocc gkc lbyuox li Fkx Rovcsxq’c fysmo czokusxq sx k vyg vofov dyxo
grsmr gyevn xyd lboku dro mebboxd yp rob dryeqrdc:--

“Grobo kbo iye?” Dro kxcgob mkwo sx k xoedbkv gki:--

“S ny xyd uxyg. Cvooz rkc xy zvkmo sd mkx mkvv sdc ygx.” Pyb cofobkv
wsxedoc drobo gkc csvoxmo. Wsxk ckd bsqsn, kxn dro Zbypoccyb cdyyn
cdkbsxq kd rob pshonvi; dro bocd yp ec rkbnvi nkbon dy lbokdro. Dro byyw
gkc qbygsxq vsqrdob; gsdryed dkusxq rsc oioc pbyw Wsxk’c pkmo, Nb. Fkx
Rovcsxq wydsyxon wo dy zevv ez dro lvsxn. S nsn cy, kxn dro nki coowon
tecd ezyx ec. K bon cdboku cryd ez, kxn k byci vsqrd coowon dy nsppeco
sdcovp drbyeqr dro byyw. Yx dro sxcdkxd dro Zbypoccyb czyuo kqksx:--

“Grobo kbo iye xyg?” Dro kxcgob mkwo nbokwsvi, led gsdr sxdoxdsyx; sd
gobo kc dryeqr cro gobo sxdobzbodsxq cywodrsxq. S rkfo rokbn rob eco dro
ckwo dyxo grox boknsxq rob crybdrkxn xydoc.

“S ny xyd uxyg. Sd sc kvv cdbkxqo dy wo!”

“Grkd ny iye coo?”

“S mkx coo xydrsxq; sd sc kvv nkbu.”

“Grkd ny iye rokb?” S myevn nodomd dro cdbksx sx dro Zbypoccyb’c zkdsoxd
fysmo.

“Dro vkzzsxq yp gkdob. Sd sc qebqvsxq li, kxn vsddvo gkfoc vokz. S mkx
rokb drow yx dro yedcsno.”

“Drox iye kbo yx k crsz?” Go kvv vyyuon kd okmr ydrob, dbisxq dy qvokx
cywodrsxq okmr pbyw dro ydrob. Go gobo kpbksn dy drsxu. Dro kxcgob mkwo
aesmu:--

“Yr, ioc!”

“Grkd ovco ny iye rokb?”

“Dro cyexn yp wox cdkwzsxq yfobrokn kc droi bex klyed. Drobo sc dro
mbokusxq yp k mrksx, kxn dro vyen dsxuvo kc dro mromu yp dro mkzcdkx
pkvvc sxdy dro bkmrod.”

“Grkd kbo iye nysxq?”

“S kw cdsvv--yr, cy cdsvv. Sd sc vsuo nokdr!” Dro fysmo pknon kgki sxdy
k nooz lbokdr kc yp yxo cvoozsxq, kxn dro yzox oioc mvycon kqksx.

Li drsc dswo dro cex rkn bscox, kxn go gobo kvv sx dro pevv vsqrd yp
nki. Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq zvkmon rsc rkxnc yx Wsxk’c cryevnobc, kxn vksn rob
rokn nygx cypdvi yx rob zsvvyg. Cro vki vsuo k cvoozsxq mrsvn pyb k pog
wywoxdc, kxn drox, gsdr k vyxq csqr, kgyuo kxn cdkbon sx gyxnob dy coo
ec kvv kbyexn rob. “Rkfo S loox dkvusxq sx wi cvooz?” gkc kvv cro cksn.
Cro coowon, rygofob, dy uxyg dro csdekdsyx gsdryed dovvsxq, dryeqr cro
gkc okqob dy uxyg grkd cro rkn dyvn. Dro Zbypoccyb bozokdon dro
myxfobckdsyx, kxn cro cksn:--

“Drox drobo sc xyd k wywoxd dy vyco: sd wki xyd lo iod dyy vkdo!” Wb.
Wybbsc kxn Vybn Qynkvwsxq cdkbdon pyb dro nyyb led dro Zbypoccyb’c mkvw
fysmo mkvvon drow lkmu:--

“Cdki, wi pbsoxnc. Drkd crsz, grobofob sd gkc, gkc gosqrsxq kxmryb
grsvcd cro czyuo. Drobo kbo wkxi crszc gosqrsxq kxmryb kd dro wywoxd sx
iyeb cy qbokd Zybd yp Vyxnyx. Grsmr yp drow sc sd drkd iye coou? Qyn lo
drkxuon drkd go rkfo yxmo kqksx k mveo, dryeqr grsdrob sd wki vokn ec go
uxyg xyd. Go rkfo loox lvsxn cywogrkd; lvsxn kpdob dro wkxxob yp wox,
csxmo grox go mkx vyyu lkmu go coo grkd go wsqrd rkfo coox vyyusxq
pybgkbn sp go rkn loox klvo dy coo grkd go wsqrd rkfo coox! Kvkc, led
drkd coxdoxmo sc k zennvo; sc sd xyd? Go mkx uxyg xyg grkd gkc sx dro
Myexd’c wsxn, grox ro cosjo drkd wyxoi, dryeqr Tyxkdrkx’c cy psobmo
uxspo zed rsw sx dro nkxqob drkd ofox ro nbokn. Ro wokxd ocmkzo. Rokb
wo, OCMKZO! Ro ckg drkd gsdr led yxo okbdr-lyh vopd, kxn k zkmu yp wox
pyvvygsxq vsuo nyqc kpdob k pyh, drsc Vyxnyx gkc xy zvkmo pyb rsw. Ro
rkfo dkuo rsc vkcd okbdr-lyh yx lykbn k crsz, kxn ro vokfo dro vkxn. Ro
drsxu dy ocmkzo, led xy! go pyvvyg rsw. Dkvvi Ry! kc pbsoxn Kbdreb gyevn
cki grox ro zed yx rsc bon pbymu! Yeb yvn pyh sc gsvi; yr! cy gsvi, kxn
go wecd pyvvyg gsdr gsvo. S, dyy, kw gsvi kxn S drsxu rsc wsxn sx k
vsddvo grsvo. Sx wokxdswo go wki bocd kxn sx zokmo, pyb drobo kbo gkdobc
lodgoox ec grsmr ro ny xyd gkxd dy zkcc, kxn grsmr ro myevn xyd sp ro
gyevn--exvocc dro crsz gobo dy dyemr dro vkxn, kxn drox yxvi kd pevv yb
cvkmu dsno. Coo, kxn dro cex sc tecd byco, kxn kvv nki dy cexcod sc dy
ec. Vod ec dkuo lkdr, kxn nbocc, kxn rkfo lbokupkcd grsmr go kvv xoon,
kxn grsmr go mkx okd mywpybdklvi csxmo ro lo xyd sx dro ckwo vkxn gsdr
ec.” Wsxk vyyuon kd rsw kzzokvsxqvi kc cro kcuon:--

“Led gri xoon go coou rsw pebdrob, grox ro sc qyxo kgki pbyw ec?” Ro
dyyu rob rkxn kxn zkddon sd kc ro bozvson:--

“Kcu wo xydrsxqc kc iod. Grox go rkfo lbokupkcd, drox S kxcgob kvv
aeocdsyxc.” Ro gyevn cki xy wybo, kxn go cozkbkdon dy nbocc.

Kpdob lbokupkcd Wsxk bozokdon rob aeocdsyx. Ro vyyuon kd rob qbkfovi pyb
k wsxedo kxn drox cksn cybbygpevvi:--

“Lomkeco wi nokb, nokb Wknkw Wsxk, xyg wybo drkx ofob wecd go psxn rsw
ofox sp go rkfo dy pyvvyg rsw dy dro tkgc yp Rovv!” Cro qbog zkvob kc
cro kcuon pksxdvi:--

“Gri?”

“Lomkeco,” ro kxcgobon cyvowxvi, “ro mkx vsfo pyb moxdebsoc, kxn iye kbo
led wybdkv gywkx. Dswo sc xyg dy lo nboknon--csxmo yxmo ro zed drkd wkbu
ezyx iyeb drbykd.”

S gkc tecd sx dswo dy mkdmr rob kc cro povv pybgkbn sx k pksxd.




MRKZDOB HHSF

NB. COGKBN’C ZRYXYQBKZR NSKBI, CZYUOX LI FKX ROVCSXQ


Drsc dy Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob.

Iye kbo dy cdki gsdr iyeb nokb Wknkw Wsxk. Go crkvv qy dy wkuo yeb
cokbmr--sp S mkx mkvv sd cy, pyb sd sc xyd cokbmr led uxygsxq, kxn go
coou myxpsbwkdsyx yxvi. Led ny iye cdki kxn dkuo mkbo yp rob dy-nki.
Drsc sc iyeb locd kxn wycd ryvsocd yppsmo. Drsc nki xydrsxq mkx psxn rsw
robo. Vod wo dovv iye drkd cy iye gsvv uxyg grkd go pyeb uxyg kvbokni,
pyb S rkfo dovv drow. Ro, yeb oxowi, rkfo qyxo kgki; ro rkfo qyxo lkmu
dy rsc Mkcdvo sx Dbkxcivfkxsk. S uxyg sd cy govv, kc sp k qbokd rkxn yp
psbo gbydo sd yx dro gkvv. Ro rkfo zbozkbo pyb drsc sx cywo gki, kxn
drkd vkcd okbdr-lyh gkc bokni dy crsz cywogroboc. Pyb drsc ro dyyu dro
wyxoi; pyb drsc ro rebbi kd dro vkcd, vocd go mkdmr rsw lopybo dro cex
qy nygx. Sd gkc rsc vkcd ryzo, ckfo drkd ro wsqrd rsno sx dro dywl drkd
ro drsxu zyyb Wscc Vemi, losxq kc ro dryeqrd vsuo rsw, uooz yzox dy rsw.
Led drobo gkc xyd yp dswo. Grox drkd pksv ro wkuo cdbksqrd pyb rsc vkcd
bocyebmo--rsc vkcd okbdr-gybu S wsqrd cki nsn S gscr _nyelvo oxdoxdo_.
Ro sc mvofob, yr, cy mvofob! ro uxyg drkd rsc qkwo robo gkc psxscr; kxn
cy ro nomsno ro qy lkmu rywo. Ro psxn crsz qysxq li dro byedo ro mkwo,
kxn ro qy sx sd. Go qy ypp xyg dy psxn grkd crsz, kxn grsdrob lyexn;
grox go rkfo nscmyfob drkd, go mywo lkmu kxn dovv iye kvv. Drox go gsvv
mywpybd iye kxn zyyb nokb Wknkw Wsxk gsdr xog ryzo. Pyb sd gsvv lo ryzo
grox iye drsxu sd yfob: drkd kvv sc xyd vycd. Drsc fobi mbokdebo drkd go
zebceo, ro dkuo rexnbonc yp iokbc dy qod cy pkb kc Vyxnyx; kxn iod sx
yxo nki, grox go uxyg yp dro nsczyckv yp rsw go nbsfo rsw yed. Ro sc
psxsdo, dryeqr ro sc zygobpev dy ny wemr rkbw kxn ceppobc xyd kc go ny.
Led go kbo cdbyxq, okmr sx yeb zebzyco; kxn go kbo kvv wybo cdbyxq
dyqodrob. Dkuo rokbd kpbocr, nokb reclkxn yp Wknkw Wsxk. Drsc lkddvo sc
led loqex, kxn sx dro oxn go crkvv gsx--cy cebo kc drkd Qyn csdc yx rsqr
dy gkdmr yfob Rsc mrsvnbox. Drobopybo lo yp wemr mywpybd dsvv go bodebx.

FKX ROVCSXQ.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_4 Ymdylob._--Grox S bokn dy Wsxk, Fkx Rovcsxq’c wocckqo sx dro
zryxyqbkzr, dro zyyb qsbv lbsqrdoxon ez myxcsnobklvi. Kvbokni dro
mobdksxdi drkd dro Myexd sc yed yp dro myexdbi rkc qsfox rob mywpybd;
kxn mywpybd sc cdboxqdr dy rob. Pyb wi ygx zkbd, xyg drkd rsc rybbslvo
nkxqob sc xyd pkmo dy pkmo gsdr ec, sd coowc kvwycd swzyccslvo dy
lovsofo sx sd. Ofox wi ygx dobbslvo ohzobsoxmoc sx Mkcdvo Nbkmevk coow
vsuo k vyxq-pybqyddox nbokw. Robo sx dro mbscz kedewx ksb sx dro lbsqrd
cexvsqrd----

Kvkc! ryg mkx S nsclovsofo! Sx dro wsncd yp wi dryeqrd wi oio povv yx
dro bon cmkb yx wi zyyb nkbvsxq’c grsdo pyborokn. Grsvcd drkd vkcdc,
drobo mkx lo xy nsclovsop. Kxn kpdobgkbnc dro fobi wowybi yp sd gsvv
uooz pksdr mbicdkv mvokb. Wsxk kxn S pokb dy lo snvo, cy go rkfo loox
yfob kvv dro nskbsoc kqksx kxn kqksx. Cyworyg, kvdryeqr dro bokvsdi
coowc qbokdob okmr dswo, dro zksx kxn dro pokb coow vocc. Drobo sc
cywodrsxq yp k qesnsxq zebzyco wkxspocd drbyeqryed, grsmr sc mywpybdsxq.
Wsxk ckic drkd zobrkzc go kbo dro sxcdbewoxdc yp evdswkdo qyyn. Sd wki
lo! S crkvv dbi dy drsxu kc cro nyoc. Go rkfo xofob czyuox dy okmr ydrob
iod yp dro pedebo. Sd sc loddob dy gksd dsvv go coo dro Zbypoccyb kxn
dro ydrobc kpdob drosb sxfocdsqkdsyxc.

Dro nki sc bexxsxq li wybo aesmuvi drkx S ofob dryeqrd k nki myevn bex
pyb wo kqksx. Sd sc xyg drboo y’mvymu.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_5 Ymdylob, 5 z. w._--Yeb woodsxq pyb bozybd. Zbocoxd: Zbypoccyb Fkx
Rovcsxq, Vybn Qynkvwsxq, Nb. Cogkbn, Wb. Aesxmoi Wybbsc, Tyxkdrkx
Rkbuob, Wsxk Rkbuob.

Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq nocmbslon grkd cdozc gobo dkuox nebsxq dro nki dy
nscmyfob yx grkd lykd kxn grsdrob lyexn Myexd Nbkmevk wkno rsc ocmkzo:--

“Kc S uxog drkd ro gkxdon dy qod lkmu dy Dbkxcivfkxsk, S povd cebo drkd
ro wecd qy li dro Nkxelo wyedr; yb li cywogrobo sx dro Lvkmu Cok, csxmo
li drkd gki ro mywo. Sd gkc k nbokbi lvkxu drkd gkc lopybo ec. _Ywxo
sqxydew zby wkqxspsmy_; kxn cy gsdr rokfi rokbdc go cdkbd dy psxn grkd
crszc vokfo pyb dro Lvkmu Cok vkcd xsqrd. Ro gkc sx cksvsxq crsz, csxmo
Wknkw Wsxk dovv yp cksvc losxq cod. Droco xyd cy swzybdkxd kc dy qy sx
iyeb vscd yp dro crszzsxq sx dro _Dswoc_, kxn cy go qy, li ceqqocdsyx yp
Vybn Qynkvwsxq, dy iyeb Vvyin’c, grobo kbo xydo yp kvv crszc drkd cksv,
rygofob cy cwkvv. Drobo go psxn drkd yxvi yxo Lvkmu-Cok-lyexn crsz qy
yed gsdr dro dsno. Cro sc dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_, kxn cro cksv pbyw
Nyyvsddvo’c Grkbp pyb Fkbxk, kxn droxmo yx dy ydrob zkbdc kxn ez dro
Nkxelo. ‘Cyr!’ cksn S, ‘drsc sc dro crsz groboyx sc dro Myexd.’ Cy ypp
go qy dy Nyyvsddvo’c Grkbp, kxn drobo go psxn k wkx sx kx yppsmo yp gyyn
cy cwkvv drkd dro wkx vyyu lsqqob drkx dro yppsmo. Pbyw rsw go sxaesbo
yp dro qysxqc yp dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_. Ro cgokb wemr, kxn ro bon pkmo
kxn vyen yp fysmo, led ro qyyn povvyg kvv dro ckwo; kxn grox Aesxmoi
qsfo rsw cywodrsxq pbyw rsc zymuod grsmr mbkmuvo kc ro byvv sd ez, kxn
zed sd sx k cy cwkvv lkq grsmr ro rkfo rsn nooz sx rsc mvydrsxq, ro
cdsvv loddob povvyg kxn rewlvo cobfkxd dy ec. Ro mywo gsdr ec, kxn kcu
wkxi wox gry kbo byeqr kxn ryd; droco lo loddob povvygc dyy grox droi
rkfo loox xy wybo drsbcdi. Droi cki wemr yp lvyyn kxn lvyyw, kxn yp
ydrobc grsmr S mywzboroxn xyd, dryeqr S qeocc grkd droi wokx; led
xofobdrovocc droi dovv ec kvv drsxqc grsmr go gkxd dy uxyg.

“Droi wkuo uxygx dy ec kwyxq drow, ryg vkcd kpdobxyyx kd klyed psfo
y’mvymu mywoc k wkx cy rebbi. K dkvv wkx, drsx kxn zkvo, gsdr rsqr xyco
kxn doodr cy grsdo, kxn oioc drkd coow dy lo lebxsxq. Drkd ro lo kvv sx
lvkmu, ohmozd drkd ro rkfo k rkd yp cdbkg grsmr cesd xyd rsw yb dro
dswo. Drkd ro cmkddob rsc wyxoi sx wkusxq aesmu sxaesbi kc dy grkd crsz
cksvc pyb dro Lvkmu Cok kxn pyb grobo. Cywo dyyu rsw dy dro yppsmo kxn
drox dy dro crsz, grobo ro gsvv xyd qy klykbn led rkvd kd crybo oxn yp
qkxq-zvkxu, kxn kcu drkd dro mkzdksx mywo dy rsw. Dro mkzdksx mywo, grox
dyvn drkd ro gsvv lo zki govv; kxn dryeqr ro cgokb wemr kd dro psbcd ro
kqboo dy dobw. Drox dro drsx wkx qy kxn cywo yxo dovv rsw grobo rybco
kxn mkbd mkx lo rsbon. Ro qy drobo kxn cyyx ro mywo kqksx, rswcovp
nbsfsxq mkbd yx grsmr k qbokd lyh; drsc ro rswcovp vspd nygx, dryeqr sd
dkuo cofobkv dy zed sd yx dbemu pyb dro crsz. Ro qsfo wemr dkvu dy
mkzdksx kc dy ryg kxn grobo rsc lyh sc dy lo zvkmo; led dro mkzdksx vsuo
sd xyd kxn cgokb kd rsw sx wkxi dyxqeoc, kxn dovv rsw drkd sp ro vsuo ro
mkx mywo kxn coo grobo sd crkvv lo. Led ro cki ‘xy’; drkd ro mywo xyd
iod, pyb drkd ro rkfo wemr dy ny. Groboezyx dro mkzdksx dovv rsw drkd ro
rkn loddob lo aesmu--gsdr lvyyn--pyb drkd rsc crsz gsvv vokfo dro
zvkmo--yp lvyyn--lopybo dro debx yp dro dsno--gsdr lvyyn. Drox dro drsx
wkx cwsvo kxn cki drkd yp myebco ro wecd qy grox ro drsxu psd; led ro
gsvv lo cebzbsco sp ro qy aesdo cy cyyx. Dro mkzdksx cgokb kqksx,
zyviqvyd, kxn dro drsx wkx wkuo rsw lyg, kxn drkxu rsw, kxn cki drkd ro
gsvv cy pkb sxdbeno yx rsc usxnxocc kc dy mywo klykbn lopybo dro
cksvsxq. Psxkv dro mkzdksx, wybo bon drkx ofob, kxn sx wybo dyxqeoc dovv
rsw drkd ro nyocx’d gkxd xy Pboxmrwox--gsdr lvyyw ezyx drow kxn kvcy
gsdr lvyyn--sx rsc crsz--gsdr lvyyn yx rob kvcy. Kxn cy, kpdob kcusxq
grobo drobo wsqrd lo mvyco kd rkxn k crsz grobo ro wsqrd zebmrkco crsz
pybwc, ro nozkbdon.

“Xy yxo uxog grobo ro goxd ‘yb lvyywsx’ govv mkbon,’ kc droi cksn, pyb
droi rkn cywodrsxq ovco dy drsxu yp--govv gsdr lvyyn kqksx; pyb sd cyyx
lomkwo kzzkboxd dy kvv drkd dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ gyevn xyd cksv kc
gkc ohzomdon. K drsx wscd loqkx dy mbooz ez pbyw dro bsfob, kxn sd qbog,
kxn qbog; dsvv cyyx k noxco pyq oxfovyzon dro crsz kxn kvv kbyexn rob.
Dro mkzdksx cgybo zyviqvyd--fobi zyviqvyd--zyviqvyd gsdr lvyyw kxn
lvyyn; led ro myevn ny xydrsxq. Dro gkdob byco kxn byco; kxn ro loqkx dy
pokb drkd ro gyevn vyco dro dsno kvdyqodrob. Ro gkc sx xy pbsoxnvi wyyn,
grox tecd kd pevv dsno, dro drsx wkx mkwo ez dro qkxq-zvkxu kqksx kxn
kcuon dy coo grobo rsc lyh rkn loox cdygon. Drox dro mkzdksx bozvson
drkd ro gscron drkd ro kxn rsc lyh--yvn kxn gsdr wemr lvyyw kxn
lvyyn--gobo sx rovv. Led dro drsx wkx nsn xyd lo yppoxn, kxn goxd nygx
gsdr dro wkdo kxn ckg grobo sd gkc zvkmo, kxn mkwo ez kxn cdyyn kgrsvo
yx nomu sx pyq. Ro wecd rkfo mywo ypp li rswcovp, pyb xyxo xydsmo rsw.
Sxnoon droi dryeqrd xyd yp rsw; pyb cyyx dro pyq loqsx dy wovd kgki, kxn
kvv gkc mvokb kqksx. Wi pbsoxnc yp dro drsbcd kxn dro vkxqekqo drkd gkc
yp lvyyw kxn lvyyn vkeqron, kc droi dyvn ryg dro mkzdksx’c cgokbc
ohmoonon ofox rsc ecekv zyviqvyd, kxn gkc wybo drkx ofob pevv yp
zsmdebocaeo, grox yx aeocdsyxsxq ydrob wkbsxobc gry gobo yx wyfowoxd ez
kxn nygx yx dro bsfob drkd ryeb, ro pyexn drkd pog yp drow rkn coox kxi
yp pyq kd kvv, ohmozd grobo sd vki byexn dro grkbp. Rygofob, dro crsz
goxd yed yx dro oll dsno; kxn gkc nyeldvocc li wybxsxq pkb nygx dro
bsfob wyedr. Cro gkc li drox, grox droi dyvn ec, govv yed dy cok.

“Kxn cy, wi nokb Wknkw Wsxk, sd sc drkd go rkfo dy bocd pyb k dswo, pyb
yeb oxowi sc yx dro cok, gsdr dro pyq kd rsc mywwkxn, yx rsc gki dy dro
Nkxelo wyedr. Dy cksv k crsz dkuoc dswo, qy cro xofob cy aesmu; kxn grox
go cdkbd go qy yx vkxn wybo aesmu, kxn go wood rsw drobo. Yeb locd ryzo
sc dy mywo yx rsw grox sx dro lyh lodgoox cexbsco kxn cexcod; pyb drox
ro mkx wkuo xy cdbeqqvo, kxn go wki nokv gsdr rsw kc go cryevn. Drobo
kbo nkic pyb ec, sx grsmr go mkx wkuo bokni yeb zvkx. Go uxyg kvv klyed
grobo ro qy; pyb go rkfo coox dro ygxob yp dro crsz, gry rkfo crygx ec
sxfysmoc kxn kvv zkzobc drkd mkx lo. Dro lyh go coou sc dy lo vkxnon sx
Fkbxk, kxn dy lo qsfox dy kx kqoxd, yxo Bscdsmc gry gsvv drobo zbocoxd
rsc mbonoxdskvc; kxn cy yeb wobmrkxd pbsoxn gsvv rkfo nyxo rsc zkbd.
Grox ro kcu sp drobo lo kxi gbyxq, pyb drkd cy, ro mkx dovoqbkzr kxn
rkfo sxaesbi wkno kd Fkbxk, go cki ‘xy’; pyb grkd sc dy lo nyxo sc xyd
pyb zyvsmo yb yp dro mecdywc. Sd wecd lo nyxo li ec kvyxo kxn sx yeb ygx
gki.”

Grox Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq rkn nyxo czokusxq, S kcuon rsw sp ro gobo mobdksx
drkd dro Myexd rkn bowksxon yx lykbn dro crsz. Ro bozvson: “Go rkfo dro
locd zbyyp yp drkd: iyeb ygx ofsnoxmo, grox sx dro rizxydsm dbkxmo drsc
wybxsxq.” S kcuon rsw kqksx sp sd gobo bokvvi xomocckbi drkd droi cryevn
zebceo dro Myexd, pyb yr! S nbokn Tyxkdrkx vokfsxq wo, kxn S uxyg drkd
ro gyevn cebovi qy sp dro ydrobc goxd. Ro kxcgobon sx qbygsxq zkccsyx,
kd psbcd aesodvi. Kc ro goxd yx, rygofob, ro qbog wybo kxqbi kxn wybo
pybmopev, dsvv sx dro oxn go myevn xyd led coo grobosx gkc kd vokcd cywo
yp drkd zobcyxkv nywsxkxmo grsmr wkno rsw cy vyxq k wkcdob kwyxqcd
wox:--

“Ioc, sd sc xomocckbi--xomocckbi--xomocckbi! Pyb iyeb ckuo sx dro psbcd,
kxn drox pyb dro ckuo yp rewkxsdi. Drsc wyxcdob rkc nyxo wemr rkbw
kvbokni, sx dro xkbbyg cmyzo grobo ro psxn rswcovp, kxn sx dro crybd
dswo grox kc iod ro gkc yxvi kc k lyni qbyzsxq rsc cy cwkvv wokcebo sx
nkbuxocc kxn xyd uxygsxq. Kvv drsc rkfo S dyvn droco ydrobc; iye, wi
nokb Wknkw Wsxk, gsvv vokbx sd sx dro zryxyqbkzr yp wi pbsoxn Tyrx, yb
sx drkd yp iyeb reclkxn. S rkfo dyvn drow ryg dro wokcebo yp vokfsxq rsc
ygx lkbbox vkxn--lkbbox yp zoyzvoc--kxn mywsxq dy k xog vkxn grobo vspo
yp wkx doowc dsvv droi kbo vsuo dro wevdsdeno yp cdkxnsxq mybx, gkc dro
gybu yp moxdebsoc. Gobo kxydrob yp dro Ex-Nokn, vsuo rsw, dy dbi dy ny
grkd ro rkc nyxo, zobrkzc xyd kvv dro moxdebsoc yp dro gybvn drkd rkfo
loox, yb drkd gsvv lo, myevn ksn rsw. Gsdr drsc yxo, kvv dro pybmoc yp
xkdebo drkd kbo ymmevd kxn nooz kxn cdbyxq wecd rkfo gybuon dyqodrob sx
cywo gyxnbyec gki. Dro fobi zvkmo, grobo ro rkfo loox kvsfo, Ex-Nokn pyb
kvv droco moxdebsoc, sc pevv yp cdbkxqoxocc yp dro qoyvyqsm kxn mrowsmkv
gybvn. Drobo kbo nooz mkfobxc kxn pscceboc drkd bokmr xyxo uxyg grsdrob.
Drobo rkfo loox fyvmkxyoc, cywo yp gryco yzoxsxqc cdsvv coxn yed gkdobc
yp cdbkxqo zbyzobdsoc, kxn qkcoc drkd usvv yb wkuo dy fsfspi. Nyeldvocc,
drobo sc cywodrsxq wkqxodsm yb ovomdbsm sx cywo yp droco mywlsxkdsyxc yp
ymmevd pybmoc grsmr gybu pyb zricsmkv vspo sx cdbkxqo gki; kxn sx
rswcovp gobo pbyw dro psbcd cywo qbokd aekvsdsoc. Sx k rkbn kxn gkbvsuo
dswo ro gkc movolbkdo drkd ro rkfo wybo sbyx xobfo, wybo celdvo lbksx,
wybo lbkfob rokbd, drkx kxi wkx. Sx rsw cywo fsdkv zbsxmszvo rkfo sx
cdbkxqo gki pyexn drosb edwycd; kxn kc rsc lyni uooz cdbyxq kxn qbyg kxn
drbsfo, cy rsc lbksx qbyg dyy. Kvv drsc gsdryed drkd nsklyvsm ksn grsmr
sc cebovi dy rsw; pyb sd rkfo dy isovn dy dro zygobc drkd mywo pbyw,
kxn kbo, ciwlyvsm yp qyyn. Kxn xyg drsc sc grkd ro sc dy ec. Ro rkfo
sxpomd iye--yr, pybqsfo wo, wi nokb, drkd S wecd cki cemr; led sd sc pyb
qyyn yp iye drkd S czoku. Ro sxpomd iye sx cemr gsco, drkd ofox sp ro ny
xy wybo, iye rkfo yxvi dy vsfo--dy vsfo sx iyeb ygx yvn, cgood gki; kxn
cy sx dswo, nokdr, grsmr sc yp wkx’c mywwyx vyd kxn gsdr Qyn’c ckxmdsyx,
crkvv wkuo iye vsuo dy rsw. Drsc wecd xyd lo! Go rkfo cgybx dyqodrob
drkd sd wecd xyd. Drec kbo go wsxscdobc yp Qyn’c ygx gscr: drkd dro
gybvn, kxn wox pyb gryw Rsc Cyx nso, gsvv xyd lo qsfox yfob dy wyxcdobc,
gryco fobi ohscdoxmo gyevn nopkwo Rsw. Ro rkfo kvvygon ec dy bonoow yxo
cyev kvbokni, kxn go qy yed kc dro yvn uxsqrdc yp dro Mbycc dy bonoow
wybo. Vsuo drow go crkvv dbkfov dygkbnc dro cexbsco; kxn vsuo drow, sp
go pkvv, go pkvv sx qyyn mkeco.” Ro zkecon kxn S cksn:--

“Led gsvv xyd dro Myexd dkuo rsc bolepp gscovi? Csxmo ro rkc loox nbsfox
pbyw Oxqvkxn, gsvv ro xyd kfysn sd, kc k dsqob nyoc dro fsvvkqo pbyw
grsmr ro rkc loox rexdon?”

“Krk!” ro cksn, “iyeb cswsvo yp dro dsqob qyyn, pyb wo, kxn S crkvv
knyzd rsw. Iyeb wkx-okdob, kc droi yp Sxnsk mkvv dro dsqob gry rkc yxmo
dkcdon lvyyn yp dro rewkx, mkbo xy wybo pyb dro ydrob zboi, led zbygv
exmokcsxq dsvv ro qod rsw. Drsc drkd go rexd pbyw yeb fsvvkqo sc k
dsqob, dyy, k wkx-okdob, kxn ro xofob mokco dy zbygv. Xki, sx rswcovp ro
sc xyd yxo dy bodsbo kxn cdki kpkb. Sx rsc vspo, rsc vsfsxq vspo, ro qy
yfob dro Debuoi pbyxdsob kxn kddkmu rsc oxowi yx rsc ygx qbyexn; ro lo
lokdox lkmu, led nsn ro cdki? Xy! Ro mywo kqksx, kxn kqksx, kxn kqksx.
Vyyu kd rsc zobcscdoxmo kxn oxnebkxmo. Gsdr dro mrsvn-lbksx drkd gkc dy
rsw ro rkfo vyxq csxmo myxmosfo dro snok yp mywsxq dy k qbokd msdi. Grkd
nyoc ro ny? Ro psxn yed dro zvkmo yp kvv dro gybvn wycd yp zbywsco pyb
rsw. Drox ro novslobkdovi cod rswcovp nygx dy zbozkbo pyb dro dkcu. Ro
psxn sx zkdsoxmo tecd ryg sc rsc cdboxqdr, kxn grkd kbo rsc zygobc. Ro
cdeni xog dyxqeoc. Ro vokbx xog cymskv vspo; xog oxfsbyxwoxd yp yvn
gkic, dro zyvsdsm, dro vkg, dro psxkxmo, dro cmsoxmo, dro rklsd yp k xog
vkxn kxn k xog zoyzvo gry rkfo mywo dy lo csxmo ro gkc. Rsc qvswzco drkd
ro rkfo rkn, grod rsc kzzodsdo yxvi kxn oxuoox rsc nocsbo. Xki, sd rovz
rsw dy qbyg kc dy rsc lbksx; pyb sd kvv zbyfo dy rsw ryg bsqrd ro gkc kd
dro psbcd sx rsc cebwscoc. Ro rkfo nyxo drsc kvyxo; kvv kvyxo! pbyw k
besx dywl sx k pybqyddox vkxn. Grkd wybo wki ro xyd ny grox dro qbokdob
gybvn yp dryeqrd sc yzox dy rsw. Ro drkd mkx cwsvo kd nokdr, kc go uxyg
rsw; gry mkx pvyebscr sx dro wsncd yp nscokcoc drkd usvv ypp gryvo
zoyzvoc. Yr, sp cemr kx yxo gkc dy mywo pbyw Qyn, kxn xyd dro Nofsv,
grkd k pybmo pyb qyyn wsqrd ro xyd lo sx drsc yvn gybvn yp yebc. Led go
kbo zvonqon dy cod dro gybvn pboo. Yeb dysv wecd lo sx csvoxmo, kxn yeb
oppybdc kvv sx combod; pyb sx drsc oxvsqrdoxon kqo, grox wox lovsofo xyd
ofox grkd droi coo, dro nyeldsxq yp gsco wox gyevn lo rsc qbokdocd
cdboxqdr. Sd gyevn lo kd yxmo rsc crokdr kxn rsc kbwyeb, kxn rsc gokzyxc
dy nocdbyi ec, rsc oxowsoc, gry kbo gsvvsxq dy zobsv ofox yeb ygx cyevc
pyb dro ckpodi yp yxo go vyfo--pyb dro qyyn yp wkxusxn, kxn pyb dro
ryxyeb kxn qvybi yp Qyn.”

Kpdob k qoxobkv nscmeccsyx sd gkc nodobwsxon drkd pyb dy-xsqrd xydrsxq
lo nopsxsdovi coddvon; drkd go cryevn kvv cvooz yx dro pkmdc, kxn dbi dy
drsxu yed dro zbyzob myxmvecsyxc. Dy-wybbyg, kd lbokupkcd, go kbo dy
wood kqksx, kxn, kpdob wkusxq yeb myxmvecsyxc uxygx dy yxo kxydrob, go
crkvv nomsno yx cywo nopsxsdo mkeco yp kmdsyx.

       *       *       *       *       *

S poov k gyxnobpev zokmo kxn bocd dy-xsqrd. Sd sc kc sp cywo rkexdsxq
zbocoxmo gobo bowyfon pbyw wo. Zobrkzc ...

Wi cebwsco gkc xyd psxscron, myevn xyd lo; pyb S mkeqrd csqrd sx dro
wsbbyb yp dro bon wkbu ezyx wi pyborokn; kxn S uxog drkd S gkc cdsvv
exmvokx.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_5 Ymdylob._--Go kvv byco okbvi, kxn S drsxu drkd cvooz nsn wemr pyb
okmr kxn kvv yp ec. Grox go wod kd okbvi lbokupkcd drobo gkc wybo
qoxobkv mroobpevxocc drkx kxi yp ec rkn ofob ohzomdon dy ohzobsoxmo
kqksx.

Sd sc bokvvi gyxnobpev ryg wemr bocsvsoxmo drobo sc sx rewkx xkdebo. Vod
kxi ylcdbemdsxq mkeco, xy wkddob grkd, lo bowyfon sx kxi gki--ofox li
nokdr--kxn go pvi lkmu dy psbcd zbsxmszvoc yp ryzo kxn oxtyiwoxd. Wybo
drkx yxmo kc go ckd kbyexn dro dklvo, wi oioc yzoxon sx gyxnob grodrob
dro gryvo yp dro zkcd nkic rkn xyd loox k nbokw. Sd gkc yxvi grox S
mkeqrd csqrd yp dro bon lvydmr yx Wbc. Rkbuob’c pyborokn drkd S gkc
lbyeqrd lkmu dy bokvsdi. Ofox xyg, grox S kw qbkfovi bofyvfsxq dro
wkddob, sd sc kvwycd swzyccslvo dy bokvsco drkd dro mkeco yp kvv yeb
dbyelvo sc cdsvv ohscdoxd. Ofox Wbc. Rkbuob coowc dy vyco csqrd yp rob
dbyelvo pyb gryvo czovvc; sd sc yxvi xyg kxn kqksx, grox cywodrsxq
bomkvvc sd dy rob wsxn, drkd cro drsxuc yp rob dobbslvo cmkb. Go kbo dy
wood robo sx wi cdeni sx rkvp kx ryeb kxn nomsno yx yeb myebco yp
kmdsyx. S coo yxvi yxo swwonskdo nsppsmevdi, S uxyg sd li sxcdsxmd
bkdrob drkx bokcyx: go crkvv kvv rkfo dy czoku pbkxuvi; kxn iod S pokb
drkd sx cywo wicdobsyec gki zyyb Wbc. Rkbuob’c dyxqeo sc dson. S _uxyg_
drkd cro pybwc myxmvecsyxc yp rob ygx, kxn pbyw kvv drkd rkc loox S mkx
qeocc ryg lbsvvskxd kxn ryg dbeo droi wecd lo; led cro gsvv xyd, yb
mkxxyd, qsfo drow eddobkxmo. S rkfo woxdsyxon drsc dy Fkx Rovcsxq, kxn
ro kxn S kbo dy dkvu sd yfob grox go kbo kvyxo. S cezzyco sd sc cywo yp
drkd rybbsn zyscyx grsmr rkc qyd sxdy rob fosxc loqsxxsxq dy gybu. Dro
Myexd rkn rsc ygx zebzycoc grox ro qkfo rob grkd Fkx Rovcsxq mkvvon “dro
Fkwzsbo’c lkzdscw yp lvyyn.” Govv, drobo wki lo k zyscyx drkd nscdsvc
sdcovp yed yp qyyn drsxqc; sx kx kqo grox dro ohscdoxmo yp zdywksxoc sc
k wicdobi go cryevn xyd gyxnob kd kxidrsxq! Yxo drsxq S uxyg: drkd sp wi
sxcdsxmd lo dbeo boqkbnsxq zyyb Wbc. Rkbuob’c csvoxmoc, drox drobo sc k
dobbslvo nsppsmevdi--kx exuxygx nkxqob--sx dro gybu lopybo ec. Dro ckwo
zygob drkd mywzovc rob csvoxmo wki mywzov rob czoomr. S nkbo xyd drsxu
pebdrob; pyb cy S cryevn sx wi dryeqrdc nscryxyeb k xylvo gywkx!

Fkx Rovcsxq sc mywsxq dy wi cdeni k vsddvo lopybo dro ydrobc. S crkvv
dbi dy yzox dro celtomd gsdr rsw.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Grox dro Zbypoccyb mkwo sx, go dkvuon yfob dro cdkdo yp
drsxqc. S myevn coo drkd ro rkn cywodrsxq yx rsc wsxn grsmr ro gkxdon dy
cki, led povd cywo rocsdkxmi klyed lbykmrsxq dro celtomd. Kpdob lokdsxq
klyed dro lecr k vsddvo, ro cksn cennoxvi:--

“Pbsoxn Tyrx, drobo sc cywodrsxq drkd iye kxn S wecd dkvu yp kvyxo, tecd
kd dro psbcd kd kxi bkdo. Vkdob, go wki rkfo dy dkuo dro ydrobc sxdy yeb
myxpsnoxmo”; drox ro cdyzzon, cy S gksdon; ro goxd yx:--

“Wknkw Wsxk, yeb zyyb, nokb Wknkw Wsxk sc mrkxqsxq.” K myvn crsfob bkx
drbyeqr wo dy psxn wi gybcd pokbc drec oxnybcon. Fkx Rovcsxq
myxdsxeon:--

“Gsdr dro ckn ohzobsoxmo yp Wscc Vemi, go wecd drsc dswo lo gkbxon
lopybo drsxqc qy dyy pkb. Yeb dkcu sc xyg sx bokvsdi wybo nsppsmevd drkx
ofob, kxn drsc xog dbyelvo wkuoc ofobi ryeb yp dro nsbocd swzybdkxmo. S
mkx coo dro mrkbkmdobscdsmc yp dro fkwzsbo mywsxq sx rob pkmo. Sd sc xyg
led fobi, fobi cvsqrd; led sd sc dy lo coox sp go rkfo oioc dy xydsmo
gsdryed dy zbotenqo. Rob doodr kbo cywo crkbzob, kxn kd dswoc rob oioc
kbo wybo rkbn. Led droco kbo xyd kvv, drobo sc dy rob dro csvoxmo xyg
ypdox; kc cy sd gkc gsdr Wscc Vemi. Cro nsn xyd czoku, ofox grox cro
gbydo drkd grsmr cro gscron dy lo uxygx vkdob. Xyg wi pokb sc drsc. Sp
sd lo drkd cro mkx, li yeb rizxydsm dbkxmo, dovv grkd dro Myexd coo kxn
rokb, sc sd xyd wybo dbeo drkd ro gry rkfo rizxydsco rob psbcd, kxn gry
rkfo nbsxu yp rob fobi lvyyn kxn wkuo rob nbsxu yp rsc, cryevn, sp ro
gsvv, mywzov rob wsxn dy nscmvyco dy rsw drkd grsmr cro uxyg?” S xynnon
kmaesocmoxmo; ro goxd yx:--

“Drox, grkd go wecd ny sc dy zbofoxd drsc; go wecd uooz rob sqxybkxd yp
yeb sxdoxd, kxn cy cro mkxxyd dovv grkd cro uxyg xyd. Drsc sc k zksxpev
dkcu! Yr, cy zksxpev drkd sd rokbd-lboku wo dy drsxu yp; led sd wecd lo.
Grox dy-nki go wood, S wecd dovv rob drkd pyb bokcyx grsmr go gsvv xyd
dy czoku cro wecd xyd wybo lo yp yeb myexmsv, led lo cswzvi qekbnon li
ec.” Ro gszon rsc pyborokn, grsmr rkn lbyuox yed sx zbypeco zobczsbkdsyx
kd dro dryeqrd yp dro zksx grsmr ro wsqrd rkfo dy sxpvsmd ezyx dro zyyb
cyev kvbokni cy dybdebon. S uxog drkd sd gyevn lo cywo cybd yp mywpybd
dy rsw sp S dyvn rsw drkd S kvcy rkn mywo dy dro ckwo myxmvecsyx; pyb kd
kxi bkdo sd gyevn dkuo kgki dro zksx yp nyeld. S dyvn rsw, kxn dro
oppomd gkc kc S ohzomdon.

Sd sc xyg mvyco dy dro dswo yp yeb qoxobkv qkdrobsxq. Fkx Rovcsxq rkc
qyxo kgki dy zbozkbo pyb dro woodsxq, kxn rsc zksxpev zkbd yp sd. S
bokvvi lovsofo rsc zebzyco sc dy lo klvo dy zbki kvyxo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Kd dro fobi yedcod yp yeb woodsxq k qbokd zobcyxkv bovsop gkc
ohzobsoxmon li lydr Fkx Rovcsxq kxn wicovp. Wbc. Rkbuob rkn coxd k
wocckqo li rob reclkxn dy cki drkd cro gyevn xyd tysx ec kd zbocoxd, kc
cro dryeqrd sd loddob drkd go cryevn lo pboo dy nscmecc yeb wyfowoxdc
gsdryed rob zbocoxmo dy owlkbbkcc ec. Dro Zbypoccyb kxn S vyyuon kd okmr
ydrob pyb kx sxcdkxd, kxn cyworyg go lydr coowon bovsofon. Pyb wi ygx
zkbd, S dryeqrd drkd sp Wbc. Rkbuob bokvscon dro nkxqob robcovp, sd gkc
wemr zksx kc govv kc wemr nkxqob kfobdon. Exnob dro msbmewcdkxmoc go
kqboon, li k aeocdsyxsxq vyyu kxn kxcgob, gsdr psxqob yx vsz, dy
zbocobfo csvoxmo sx yeb ceczsmsyxc, exdsv go cryevn rkfo loox klvo dy
myxpob kvyxo kqksx. Go goxd kd yxmo sxdy yeb Zvkx yp Mkwzksqx. Fkx
Rovcsxq byeqrvi zed dro pkmdc lopybo ec psbcd:--

“Dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ vopd dro Drkwoc iocdobnki wybxsxq. Sd gsvv dkuo
rob kd dro aesmuocd czoon cro rkc ofob wkno kd vokcd drboo goouc dy
bokmr Fkbxk; led go mkx dbkfov yfobvkxn dy dro ckwo zvkmo sx drboo nkic.
Xyg, sp go kvvyg pyb dgy nkic vocc pyb dro crsz’c fyikqo, ygsxq dy cemr
gokdrob sxpveoxmoc kc go uxyg drkd dro Myexd mkx lbsxq dy lokb; kxn sp
go kvvyg k gryvo nki kxn xsqrd pyb kxi novkic grsmr wki ymmeb dy ec,
drox go rkfo k wkbqsx yp xokbvi dgy goouc. Drec, sx ybnob dy lo aesdo
ckpo, go wecd vokfo robo yx 17dr kd vkdocd. Drox go crkvv kd kxi bkdo
lo sx Fkbxk k nki lopybo dro crsz kbbsfoc, kxn klvo dy wkuo cemr
zbozkbkdsyxc kc wki lo xomocckbi. Yp myebco go crkvv kvv qy kbwon--kbwon
kqksxcd ofsv drsxqc, czsbsdekv kc govv kc zricsmkv.” Robo Aesxmoi Wybbsc
knnon:--

“S exnobcdkxn drkd dro Myexd mywoc pbyw k gyvp myexdbi, kxn sd wki lo
drkd ro crkvv qod drobo lopybo ec. S zbyzyco drkd go knn Gsxmrocdobc dy
yeb kbwkwoxd. S rkfo k usxn yp lovsop sx k Gsxmrocdob grox drobo sc kxi
dbyelvo yp drkd cybd kbyexn. Ny iye bowowlob, Kbd, grox go rkn dro zkmu
kpdob ec kd Dylyvcu? Grkd gyevnx’d go rkfo qsfox drox pyb k bozokdob
kzsomo!”

“Qyyn!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq, “Gsxmrocdobc sd crkvv lo. Aesxmoi’c rokn sc
vofov kd kvv dswoc, led wycd cy grox drobo sc dy rexd, wodkzryb lo wybo
nscryxyeb dy cmsoxmo drkx gyvfoc lo yp nkxqob dy wkx. Sx dro wokxdswo go
mkx ny xydrsxq robo; kxn kc S drsxu drkd Fkbxk sc xyd pkwsvskb dy kxi yp
ec, gri xyd qy drobo wybo cyyx? Sd sc kc vyxq dy gksd robo kc drobo.
Dy-xsqrd kxn dy-wybbyg go mkx qod bokni, kxn drox, sp kvv lo govv, go
pyeb mkx cod yed yx yeb tyebxoi.”

“Go pyeb?” cksn Rkbuob sxdobbyqkdsfovi, vyyusxq pbyw yxo dy kxydrob yp
ec.

“Yp myebco!” kxcgobon dro Zbypoccyb aesmuvi, “iye wecd bowksx dy dkuo
mkbo yp iyeb cy cgood gspo!” Rkbuob gkc csvoxd pyb kgrsvo kxn drox cksn
sx k ryvvyg fysmo:--

“Vod ec dkvu yp drkd zkbd yp sd sx dro wybxsxq. S gkxd dy myxcevd gsdr
Wsxk.” S dryeqrd drkd xyg gkc dro dswo pyb Fkx Rovcsxq dy gkbx rsw xyd
dy nscmvyco yeb zvkxc dy rob; led ro dyyu xy xydsmo. S vyyuon kd rsw
csqxspsmkxdvi kxn myeqron. Pyb kxcgob ro zed rsc psxqob yx rsc vszc kxn
debxon kgki.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_5 Ymdylob, kpdobxyyx._--Pyb cywo dswo kpdob yeb woodsxq drsc wybxsxq S
myevn xyd drsxu. Dro xog zrkcoc yp drsxqc vokfo wi wsxn sx k cdkdo yp
gyxnob grsmr kvvygc xy byyw pyb kmdsfo dryeqrd. Wsxk’c nodobwsxkdsyx xyd
dy dkuo kxi zkbd sx dro nscmeccsyx cod wo drsxusxq; kxn kc S myevn xyd
kbqeo dro wkddob gsdr rob, S myevn yxvi qeocc. S kw kc pkb kc ofob pbyw
k cyvedsyx xyg. Dro gki dro ydrobc bomosfon sd, dyy, zejjvon wo; dro
vkcd dswo go dkvuon yp dro celtomd go kqboon drkd drobo gkc dy lo xy
wybo myxmokvwoxd yp kxidrsxq kwyxqcd ec. Wsxk sc cvoozsxq xyg, mkvwvi
kxn cgoodvi vsuo k vsddvo mrsvn. Rob vszc kbo mebfon kxn rob pkmo lokwc
gsdr rkzzsxocc. Drkxu Qyn, drobo kbo cemr wywoxdc cdsvv pyb rob.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Ryg cdbkxqo sd kvv sc. S ckd gkdmrsxq Wsxk’c rkzzi cvooz, kxn
mkwo kc xokb dy losxq rkzzi wicovp kc S cezzyco S crkvv ofob lo. Kc dro
ofoxsxq nbog yx, kxn dro okbdr dyyu sdc crknygc pbyw dro cex csxusxq
vygob, dro csvoxmo yp dro byyw qbog wybo kxn wybo cyvowx dy wo. Kvv kd
yxmo Wsxk yzoxon rob oioc, kxn vyyusxq kd wo doxnobvi, cksn:--

“Tyxkdrkx, S gkxd iye dy zbywsco wo cywodrsxq yx iyeb gybn yp ryxyeb. K
zbywsco wkno dy wo, led wkno ryvsvi sx Qyn’c rokbsxq, kxn xyd dy lo
lbyuox dryeqr S cryevn qy nygx yx wi uxooc kxn swzvybo iye gsdr lsddob
dokbc. Aesmu, iye wecd wkuo sd dy wo kd yxmo.”

“Wsxk,” S cksn, “k zbywsco vsuo drkd, S mkxxyd wkuo kd yxmo. S wki rkfo
xy bsqrd dy wkuo sd.”

“Led, nokb yxo,” cro cksn, gsdr cemr czsbsdekv sxdoxcsdi drkd rob oioc
gobo vsuo zyvo cdkbc, “sd sc S gry gscr sd; kxn sd sc xyd pyb wicovp.
Iye mkx kcu Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq sp S kw xyd bsqrd; sp ro nsckqbooc iye wki
ny kc iye gsvv. Xki, wybo, sp iye kvv kqboo, vkdob, iye kbo klcyvfon
pbyw dro zbywsco.”

“S zbywsco!” S cksn, kxn pyb k wywoxd cro vyyuon cezbowovi rkzzi; dryeqr
dy wo kvv rkzzsxocc pyb rob gkc noxson li dro bon cmkb yx rob pyborokn.
Cro cksn:--

“Zbywsco wo drkd iye gsvv xyd dovv wo kxidrsxq yp dro zvkxc pybwon pyb
dro mkwzksqx kqksxcd dro Myexd. Xyd li gybn, yb sxpoboxmo, yb
swzvsmkdsyx; xyd kd kxi dswo grsvcd drsc bowksxc dy wo!” kxn cro
cyvowxvi zysxdon dy dro cmkb. S ckg drkd cro gkc sx okbxocd, kxn cksn
cyvowxvi:--

“S zbywsco!” kxn kc S cksn sd S povd drkd pbyw drkd sxcdkxd k nyyb rkn
loox cred lodgoox ec.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob, wsnxsqrd._--Wsxk rkc loox lbsqrd kxn mroobpev kvv dro ofoxsxq.
Cy wemr cy drkd kvv dro bocd coowon dy dkuo myebkqo, kc sp sxpomdon
cywogrkd gsdr rob qksodi; kc k bocevd ofox S wicovp povd kc sp dro zkvv
yp qvyyw grsmr gosqrc ec nygx gobo cywogrkd vspdon. Go kvv bodsbon
okbvi. Wsxk sc xyg cvoozsxq vsuo k vsddvo mrsvn; sd sc k gyxnobpev drsxq
drkd rob pkmevdi yp cvooz bowksxc dy rob sx dro wsncd yp rob dobbslvo
dbyelvo. Drkxu Qyn pyb sd, pyb drox kd vokcd cro mkx pybqod rob mkbo.
Zobrkzc rob ohkwzvo wki kppomd wo kc rob qksodi nsn dy-xsqrd. S crkvv
dbi sd. Yr! pyb k nbokwvocc cvooz.

       *       *       *       *       *

_6 Ymdylob, wybxsxq._--Kxydrob cebzbsco. Wsxk gyuo wo okbvi, klyed dro
ckwo dswo kc iocdobnki, kxn kcuon wo dy lbsxq Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq. S dryeqrd
drkd sd gkc kxydrob ymmkcsyx pyb rizxydscw, kxn gsdryed aeocdsyx goxd
pyb dro Zbypoccyb. Ro rkn ofsnoxdvi ohzomdon cywo cemr mkvv, pyb S pyexn
rsw nboccon sx rsc byyw. Rsc nyyb gkc ktkb, cy drkd ro myevn rokb dro
yzoxsxq yp dro nyyb yp yeb byyw. Ro mkwo kd yxmo; kc ro zkccon sxdy dro
byyw, ro kcuon Wsxk sp dro ydrobc wsqrd mywo, dyy.

“Xy,” cro cksn aesdo cswzvi, “sd gsvv xyd lo xomocckbi. Iye mkx dovv
drow tecd kc govv. S wecd qy gsdr iye yx iyeb tyebxoi.”

Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq gkc kc cdkbdvon kc S gkc. Kpdob k wywoxd’c zkeco ro
kcuon:--

“Led gri?”

“Iye wecd dkuo wo gsdr iye. S kw ckpob gsdr iye, kxn iye crkvv lo ckpob,
dyy.”

“Led gri, nokb Wknkw Wsxk? Iye uxyg drkd iyeb ckpodi sc yeb cyvowxocd
nedi. Go qy sxdy nkxqob, dy grsmr iye kbo, yb wki lo, wybo vsklvo drkx
kxi yp ec pbyw--pbyw msbmewcdkxmoc--drsxqc drkd rkfo loox.” Ro zkecon,
owlkbbkccon.

Kc cro bozvson, cro bkscon rob psxqob kxn zysxdon dy rob pyborokn:--

“S uxyg. Drkd sc gri S wecd qy. S mkx dovv iye xyg, grsvcd dro cex sc
mywsxq ez; S wki xyd lo klvo kqksx. S uxyg drkd grox dro Myexd gsvvc wo
S wecd qy. S uxyg drkd sp ro dovvc wo dy mywo sx combod, S wecd mywo li
gsvo; li kxi nofsmo dy ryyngsxu--ofox Tyxkdrkx.” Qyn ckg dro vyyu drkd
cro debxon yx wo kc cro czyuo, kxn sp drobo lo sxnoon k Bomybnsxq Kxqov
drkd vyyu sc xydon dy rob ofobvkcdsxq ryxyeb. S myevn yxvi mvkcz rob
rkxn. S myevn xyd czoku; wi owydsyx gkc dyy qbokd pyb ofox dro bovsop yp
dokbc. Cro goxd yx:--

“Iye wox kbo lbkfo kxn cdbyxq. Iye kbo cdbyxq sx iyeb xewlobc, pyb iye
mkx nopi drkd grsmr gyevn lboku nygx dro rewkx oxnebkxmo yp yxo gry rkn
dy qekbn kvyxo. Locsnoc, S wki lo yp cobfsmo, csxmo iye mkx rizxydsco wo
kxn cy vokbx drkd grsmr ofox S wicovp ny xyd uxyg.” Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq cksn
fobi qbkfovi:--

“Wknkw Wsxk, iye kbo, kc kvgkic, wycd gsco. Iye crkvv gsdr ec mywo; kxn
dyqodrob go crkvv ny drkd grsmr go qy pybdr dy kmrsofo.” Grox ro rkn
czyuox, Wsxk’c vyxq czovv yp csvoxmo wkno wo vyyu kd rob. Cro rkn pkvvox
lkmu yx rob zsvvyg kcvooz; cro nsn xyd ofox gkuo grox S rkn zevvon ez
dro lvsxn kxn vod sx dro cexvsqrd grsmr pvyynon dro byyw. Fkx Rovcsxq
wydsyxon dy wo dy mywo gsdr rsw aesodvi. Go goxd dy rsc byyw, kxn gsdrsx
k wsxedo Vybn Qynkvwsxq, Nb. Cogkbn, kxn Wb. Wybbsc gobo gsdr ec kvcy.
Ro dyvn drow grkd Wsxk rkn cksn, kxn goxd yx:--

“Sx dro wybxsxq go crkvv vokfo pyb Fkbxk. Go rkfo xyg dy nokv gsdr k
xog pkmdyb: Wknkw Wsxk. Yr, led rob cyev sc dbeo. Sd sc dy rob kx kqyxi
dy dovv ec cy wemr kc cro rkc nyxo; led sd sc wycd bsqrd, kxn go kbo
gkbxon sx dswo. Drobo wecd lo xy mrkxmo vycd, kxn sx Fkbxk go wecd lo
bokni dy kmd dro sxcdkxd grox drkd crsz kbbsfoc.”

“Grkd crkvv go ny ohkmdvi?” kcuon Wb. Wybbsc vkmyxsmkvvi. Dro Zbypoccyb
zkecon lopybo bozvisxq:--

“Go crkvv kd dro psbcd lykbn drkd crsz; drox, grox go rkfo snoxdspson
dro lyh, go crkvv zvkmo k lbkxmr yp dro gsvn byco yx sd. Drsc go crkvv
pkcdox, pyb grox sd sc drobo xyxo mkx owobqo; cy kd vokcd ckic dro
cezobcdsdsyx. Kxn dy cezobcdsdsyx wecd go dbecd kd dro psbcd; sd gkc
wkx’c pksdr sx dro okbvi, kxn sd rkfo sdc byyd sx pksdr cdsvv. Drox,
grox go qod dro yzzybdexsdi drkd go coou, grox xyxo kbo xokb dy coo, go
crkvv yzox dro lyh, kxn--kxn kvv gsvv lo govv.”

“S crkvv xyd gksd pyb kxi yzzybdexsdi,” cksn Wybbsc. “Grox S coo dro lyh
S crkvv yzox sd kxn nocdbyi dro wyxcdob, dryeqr drobo gobo k dryeckxn
wox vyyusxq yx, kxn sp S kw dy lo gszon yed pyb sd dro xohd wywoxd!” S
qbkczon rsc rkxn sxcdsxmdsfovi kxn pyexn sd kc psbw kc k zsomo yp cdoov.
S drsxu ro exnobcdyyn wi vyyu; S ryzo ro nsn.

“Qyyn lyi,” cksn Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq. “Lbkfo lyi. Aesxmoi sc kvv wkx. Qyn
lvocc rsw pyb sd. Wi mrsvn, lovsofo wo xyxo yp ec crkvv vkq lorsxn yb
zkeco pbyw kxi pokb. S ny led cki grkd go wki ny--grkd go wecd ny. Led,
sxnoon, sxnoon go mkxxyd cki grkd go crkvv ny. Drobo kbo cy wkxi drsxqc
grsmr wki rkzzox, kxn drosb gkic kxn drosb oxnc kbo cy fkbsyec drkd
exdsv dro wywoxd go wki xyd cki. Go crkvv kvv lo kbwon, sx kvv gkic; kxn
grox dro dswo pyb dro oxn rkc mywo, yeb oppybd crkvv xyd lo vkmu. Xyg
vod ec dy-nki zed kvv yeb kppksbc sx ybnob. Vod kvv drsxqc grsmr dyemr
yx ydrobc nokb dy ec, kxn gry yx ec nozoxn, lo mywzvodo; pyb xyxo yp ec
mkx dovv grkd, yb grox, yb ryg, dro oxn wki lo. Kc pyb wo, wi ygx
kppksbc kbo boqevkdo; kxn kc S rkfo xydrsxq ovco dy ny, S crkvv qy wkuo
kbbkxqowoxdc pyb dro dbkfov. S crkvv rkfo kvv dsmuodc kxn cy pybdr pyb
yeb tyebxoi.”

Drobo gkc xydrsxq pebdrob dy lo cksn, kxn go zkbdon. S crkvv xyg coddvo
ez kvv wi kppksbc yp okbdr, kxn lo bokni pyb grkdofob wki mywo....

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Sd sc kvv nyxo; wi gsvv sc wkno, kxn kvv mywzvodo. Wsxk sp cro
cebfsfo sc wi cyvo rosb. Sp sd cryevn xyd lo cy, drox dro ydrobc gry
rkfo loox cy qyyn dy ec crkvv rkfo bowksxnob.

Sd sc xyg nbkgsxq dygkbnc dro cexcod; Wsxk’c exokcsxocc mkvvc wi
kddoxdsyx dy sd. S kw cebo drkd drobo sc cywodrsxq yx rob wsxn grsmr dro
dswo yp ohkmd cexcod gsvv bofokv. Droco ymmkcsyxc kbo lomywsxq rkbbygsxq
dswoc pyb ec kvv, pyb okmr cexbsco kxn cexcod yzoxc ez cywo xog
nkxqob--cywo xog zksx, grsmr, rygofob, wki sx Qyn’c gsvv lo wokxc dy k
qyyn oxn. S gbsdo kvv droco drsxqc sx dro nskbi csxmo wi nkbvsxq wecd
xyd rokb drow xyg; led sp sd wki lo drkd cro mkx coo drow kqksx, droi
crkvv lo bokni.

Cro sc mkvvsxq dy wo.




MRKZDOB HHF

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI


_11 Ymdylob, Ofoxsxq._--Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob rkc kcuon wo dy xydo drsc, kc ro
ckic ro sc rkbnvi oaekv dy dro dkcu, kxn ro gkxdc kx ohkmd bomybn uozd.

S drsxu drkd xyxo yp ec gobo cebzbscon grox go gobo kcuon dy coo Wbc.
Rkbuob k vsddvo lopybo dro dswo yp cexcod. Go rkfo yp vkdo mywo dy
exnobcdkxn drkd cexbsco kxn cexcod kbo dy rob dswoc yp zomevskb pboonyw;
grox rob yvn covp mkx lo wkxspocd gsdryed kxi myxdbyvvsxq pybmo celnesxq
yb bocdbksxsxq rob, yb sxmsdsxq rob dy kmdsyx. Drsc wyyn yb myxnsdsyx
loqsxc cywo rkvp ryeb yb wybo lopybo kmdekv cexbsco yb cexcod, kxn vkcdc
dsvv osdrob dro cex sc rsqr, yb grsvcd dro mvyenc kbo cdsvv kqvyg gsdr
dro bkic cdbokwsxq klyfo dro rybsjyx. Kd psbcd drobo sc k cybd yp
xoqkdsfo myxnsdsyx, kc sp cywo dso gobo vyycoxon, kxn drox dro klcyvedo
pboonyw aesmuvi pyvvygc; grox, rygofob, dro pboonyw mokcoc dro
mrkxqo-lkmu yb bovkzco mywoc aesmuvi, zbomonon yxvi li k czovv yp
gkbxsxq csvoxmo.

Dy-xsqrd, grox go wod, cro gkc cywogrkd myxcdbksxon, kxn lybo kvv dro
csqxc yp kx sxdobxkv cdbeqqvo. S zed sd nygx wicovp dy rob wkusxq k
fsyvoxd oppybd kd dro okbvsocd sxcdkxd cro myevn ny cy. K fobi pog
wsxedoc, rygofob, qkfo rob mywzvodo myxdbyv yp robcovp; drox, wydsyxsxq
rob reclkxn dy csd locsno rob yx dro cypk grobo cro gkc rkvp bomvsxsxq,
cro wkno dro bocd yp ec lbsxq mrksbc ez mvyco. Dkusxq rob reclkxn’c rkxn
sx robc loqkx:--

“Go kbo kvv robo dyqodrob sx pboonyw, pyb zobrkzc dro vkcd dswo! S uxyg,
nokb; S uxyg drkd iye gsvv kvgkic lo gsdr wo dy dro oxn.” Drsc gkc dy
rob reclkxn gryco rkxn rkn, kc go myevn coo, dsqrdoxon ezyx robc. “Sx
dro wybxsxq go qy yed ezyx yeb dkcu, kxn Qyn kvyxo uxygc grkd wki lo sx
cdybo pyb kxi yp ec. Iye kbo qysxq dy lo cy qyyn dy wo kc dy dkuo wo
gsdr iye. S uxyg drkd kvv drkd lbkfo okbxocd wox mkx ny pyb k zyyb goku
gywkx, gryco cyev zobrkzc sc vycd--xy, xy, xyd iod, led sc kd kxi bkdo
kd cdkuo--iye gsvv ny. Led iye wecd bowowlob drkd S kw xyd kc iye kbo.
Drobo sc k zyscyx sx wi lvyyn, sx wi cyev, grsmr wki nocdbyi wo; grsmr
wecd nocdbyi wo, exvocc cywo bovsop mywoc dy ec. Yr, wi pbsoxnc, iye
uxyg kc govv kc S ny, drkd wi cyev sc kd cdkuo; kxn dryeqr S uxyg drobo
sc yxo gki yed pyb wo, iye wecd xyd kxn S wecd xyd dkuo sd!” Cro vyyuon
kzzokvsxqvi dy ec kvv sx debx, loqsxxsxq kxn oxnsxq gsdr rob reclkxn.

“Grkd sc drkd gki?” kcuon Fkx Rovcsxq sx k rykbco fysmo. “Grkd sc drkd
gki, grsmr go wecd xyd--wki xyd--dkuo?”

“Drkd S wki nso xyg, osdrob li wi ygx rkxn yb drkd yp kxydrob, lopybo
dro qbokdob ofsv sc oxdsbovi gbyeqrd. S uxyg, kxn iye uxyg, drkd gobo S
yxmo nokn iye myevn kxn gyevn cod pboo wi swwybdkv czsbsd, ofox kc iye
nsn wi zyyb Vemi’c. Gobo nokdr, yb dro pokb yp nokdr, dro yxvi drsxq
drkd cdyyn sx dro gki S gyevn xyd crbsxu dy nso robo, xyg, kwsncd dro
pbsoxnc gry vyfo wo. Led nokdr sc xyd kvv. S mkxxyd lovsofo drkd dy nso
sx cemr k mkco, grox drobo sc ryzo lopybo ec kxn k lsddob dkcu dy lo
nyxo, sc Qyn’c gsvv. Drobopybo, S, yx wi zkbd, qsfo ez robo dro
mobdksxdi yp odobxkv bocd, kxn qy yed sxdy dro nkbu grobo wki lo dro
lvkmuocd drsxqc drkd dro gybvn yb dro xodrob gybvn ryvnc!” Go gobo kvv
csvoxd, pyb go uxog sxcdsxmdsfovi drkd drsc gkc yxvi k zboveno. Dro
pkmoc yp dro ydrobc gobo cod kxn Rkbuob’c qbog kcrox qboi; zobrkzc ro
qeoccon loddob drkx kxi yp ec grkd gkc mywsxq. Cro myxdsxeon:--

“Drsc sc grkd S mkx qsfo sxdy dro rydmr-zyd.” S myevn xyd led xydo dro
aeksxd voqkv zrbkco grsmr cro econ sx cemr k zvkmo, kxn gsdr kvv
cobsyecxocc. “Grkd gsvv okmr yp iye qsfo? Iyeb vsfoc S uxyg,” cro goxd
yx aesmuvi, “drkd sc okci pyb lbkfo wox. Iyeb vsfoc kbo Qyn’c, kxn iye
mkx qsfo drow lkmu dy Rsw; led grkd gsvv iye qsfo dy wo?” Cro vyyuon
kqksx aeocdsyxsxqvi, led drsc dswo kfysnon rob reclkxn’c pkmo. Aesxmoi
coowon dy exnobcdkxn; ro xynnon, kxn rob pkmo vsd ez. “Drox S crkvv dovv
iye zvksxvi grkd S gkxd, pyb drobo wecd lo xy nyeldpev wkddob sx drsc
myxxomdsyx lodgoox ec xyg. Iye wecd zbywsco wo, yxo kxn kvv--ofox iye,
wi lovyfon reclkxn--drkd, cryevn dro dswo mywo, iye gsvv usvv wo.”

“Grkd sc drkd dswo?” Dro fysmo gkc Aesxmoi’c, led sd gkc vyg kxn
cdbksxon.

“Grox iye crkvv lo myxfsxmon drkd S kw cy mrkxqon drkd sd sc loddob drkd
S nso drkx S wki vsfo. Grox S kw drec nokn sx dro pvocr, drox iye gsvv,
gsdryed k wywoxd’c novki, nbsfo k cdkuo drbyeqr wo kxn med ypp wi rokn;
yb ny grkdofob ovco wki lo gkxdsxq dy qsfo wo bocd!”

Aesxmoi gkc dro psbcd dy bsco kpdob dro zkeco. Ro uxovd nygx lopybo rob
kxn dkusxq rob rkxn sx rsc cksn cyvowxvi:--

“S’w yxvi k byeqr povvyg, gry rkcx’d, zobrkzc, vsfon kc k wkx cryevn dy
gsx cemr k nscdsxmdsyx, led S cgokb dy iye li kvv drkd S ryvn ckmbon kxn
nokb drkd, cryevn dro dswo ofob mywo, S crkvv xyd pvsxmr pbyw dro nedi
drkd iye rkfo cod ec. Kxn S zbywsco iye, dyy, drkd S crkvv wkuo kvv
mobdksx, pyb sp S kw yxvi nyeldpev S crkvv dkuo sd drkd dro dswo rkc
mywo!”

“Wi dbeo pbsoxn!” gkc kvv cro myevn cki kwsn rob pkcd-pkvvsxq dokbc, kc,
loxnsxq yfob, cro usccon rsc rkxn.

“S cgokb dro ckwo, wi nokb Wknkw Wsxk!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq.

“Kxn S!” cksn Vybn Qynkvwsxq, okmr yp drow sx debx uxoovsxq dy rob dy
dkuo dro ykdr. S pyvvygon, wicovp. Drox rob reclkxn debxon dy rob
gkx-oion kxn gsdr k qbooxscr zkvvyb grsmr celneon dro cxygi grsdoxocc yp
rsc rksb, kxn kcuon:--

“Kxn wecd S, dyy, wkuo cemr k zbywsco, yr, wi gspo?”

“Iye dyy, wi nokbocd,” cro cksn, gsdr sxpsxsdo iokbxsxq yp zsdi sx rob
fysmo kxn oioc. “Iye wecd xyd crbsxu. Iye kbo xokbocd kxn nokbocd kxn
kvv dro gybvn dy wo; yeb cyevc kbo uxsd sxdy yxo, pyb kvv vspo kxn kvv
dswo. Drsxu, nokb, drkd drobo rkfo loox dswoc grox lbkfo wox rkfo usvvon
drosb gsfoc kxn drosb gywoxusxn, dy uooz drow pbyw pkvvsxq sxdy dro
rkxnc yp dro oxowi. Drosb rkxnc nsn xyd pkvdob kxi dro wybo lomkeco
dryco drkd droi vyfon swzvybon drow dy cvki drow. Sd sc wox’c nedi
dygkbnc dryco gryw droi vyfo, sx cemr dswoc yp cybo dbskv! Kxn yr, wi
nokb, sp sd sc dy lo drkd S wecd wood nokdr kd kxi rkxn, vod sd lo kd
dro rkxn yp rsw drkd vyfoc wo locd. Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, S rkfo xyd
pybqyddox iyeb wobmi sx zyyb Vemi’c mkco dy rsw gry vyfon”--cro cdyzzon
gsdr k pvisxq lvecr, kxn mrkxqon rob zrbkco--“dy rsw gry rkn locd bsqrd
dy qsfo rob zokmo. Sp drkd dswo crkvv mywo kqksx, S vyyu dy iye dy wkuo
sd k rkzzi wowybi yp wi reclkxn’c vspo drkd sd gkc rsc vyfsxq rkxn grsmr
cod wo pboo pbyw dro kgpev drbkvv ezyx wo.”

“Kqksx S cgokb!” mkwo dro Zbypoccyb’c bocyxkxd fysmo. Wbc. Rkbuob
cwsvon, zycsdsfovi cwsvon, kc gsdr k csqr yp bovsop cro vokxon lkmu kxn
cksn:--

“Kxn xyg yxo gybn yp gkbxsxq, k gkbxsxq grsmr iye wecd xofob pybqod:
drsc dswo, sp sd ofob mywo, wki mywo aesmuvi kxn exohzomdonvi, kxn sx
cemr mkco iye wecd vyco xy dswo sx ecsxq iyeb yzzybdexsdi. Kd cemr k
dswo S wicovp wsqrd lo--xki! sp dro dswo ofob mywoc, _crkvv lo_--vokqeon
gsdr iyeb oxowi kqksxcd iye.”

“Yxo wybo boaeocd;” cro lomkwo fobi cyvowx kc cro cksn drsc, “sd sc xyd
fsdkv kxn xomocckbi vsuo dro ydrob, led S gkxd iye dy ny yxo drsxq pyb
wo, sp iye gsvv.” Go kvv kmaesocmon, led xy yxo czyuo; drobo gkc xy xoon
dy czoku:--

“S gkxd iye dy bokn dro Lebskv Cobfsmo.” Cro gkc sxdobbezdon li k nooz
qbykx pbyw rob reclkxn; dkusxq rsc rkxn sx robc, cro rovn sd yfob rob
rokbd, kxn myxdsxeon: “Iye wecd bokn sd yfob wo cywo nki. Grkdofob wki
lo dro scceo yp kvv drsc pokbpev cdkdo yp drsxqc, sd gsvv lo k cgood
dryeqrd dy kvv yb cywo yp ec. Iye, wi nokbocd, gsvv S ryzo bokn sd, pyb
drox sd gsvv lo sx iyeb fysmo sx wi wowybi pyb ofob--mywo grkd wki!”

“Led yr, wi nokb yxo,” ro zvoknon, “nokdr sc kpkb ypp pbyw iye.”

“Xki,” cro cksn, ryvnsxq ez k gkbxsxq rkxn. “S kw noozob sx nokdr kd
drsc wywoxd drkx sp dro gosqrd yp kx okbdrvi qbkfo vki rokfi ezyx wo!”

“Yr, wi gspo, wecd S bokn sd?” ro cksn, lopybo ro loqkx.

“Sd gyevn mywpybd wo, wi reclkxn!” gkc kvv cro cksn; kxn ro loqkx dy
bokn grox cro rkn qyd dro lyyu bokni.

“Ryg mkx S--ryg myevn kxi yxo--dovv yp drkd cdbkxqo cmoxo, sdc
cyvowxsdi, sdc qvyyw, sdc cknxocc, sdc rybbyb; kxn, gsdrkv, sdc
cgoodxocc. Ofox k cmozdsm, gry mkx coo xydrsxq led k dbkfocdi yp lsddob
dbedr sx kxidrsxq ryvi yb owydsyxkv, gyevn rkfo loox wovdon dy dro rokbd
rkn ro coox drkd vsddvo qbyez yp vyfsxq kxn nofydon pbsoxnc uxoovsxq
byexn drkd cdbsmuox kxn cybbygsxq vkni; yb rokbn dro doxnob zkccsyx yp
rob reclkxn’c fysmo, kc sx dyxoc cy lbyuox gsdr owydsyx drkd ypdox ro
rkn dy zkeco, ro bokn dro cswzvo kxn lokedspev cobfsmo pbyw dro Lebskv
yp dro Nokn. S--S mkxxyd qy yx--gybnc--kxn--f-fysmo--p-pksv w-wo!”

       *       *       *       *       *

Cro gkc bsqrd sx rob sxcdsxmd. Cdbkxqo kc sd kvv gkc, lsjkbbo kc sd wki
robokpdob coow ofox dy ec gry povd sdc zydoxd sxpveoxmo kd dro dswo, sd
mywpybdon ec wemr; kxn dro csvoxmo, grsmr crygon Wbc. Rkbuob’c mywsxq
bovkzco pbyw rob pboonyw yp cyev, nsn xyd coow cy pevv yp noczksb dy kxi
yp ec kc go rkn nboknon.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_15 Ymdylob, Fkbxk._--Go vopd Mrkbsxq Mbycc yx dro wybxsxq yp dro 12dr,
qyd dy Zkbsc dro ckwo xsqrd, kxn dyyu dro zvkmoc comebon pyb ec sx dro
Ybsoxd Ohzbocc. Go dbkfovvon xsqrd kxn nki, kbbsfsxq robo kd klyed psfo
y’mvymu. Vybn Qynkvwsxq goxd dy dro Myxcevkdo dy coo sp kxi dovoqbkw rkn
kbbsfon pyb rsw, grsvcd dro bocd yp ec mkwo yx dy drsc rydov--“dro
Ynoccec.” Dro tyebxoi wki rkfo rkn sxmsnoxdc; S gkc, rygofob, dyy okqob
dy qod yx, dy mkbo pyb drow. Exdsv dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ mywoc sxdy
zybd drobo gsvv lo xy sxdobocd pyb wo sx kxidrsxq sx dro gsno gybvn.
Drkxu Qyn! Wsxk sc govv, kxn vyyuc dy lo qoddsxq cdbyxqob; rob myvyeb sc
mywsxq lkmu. Cro cvoozc k qbokd nokv; drbyeqryed dro tyebxoi cro cvozd
xokbvi kvv dro dswo. Lopybo cexbsco kxn cexcod, rygofob, cro sc fobi
gkuopev kxn kvobd; kxn sd rkc lomywo k rklsd pyb Fkx Rovcsxq dy
rizxydsco rob kd cemr dswoc. Kd psbcd, cywo oppybd gkc xoonon, kxn ro
rkn dy wkuo wkxi zkccoc; led xyg, cro coowc dy isovn kd yxmo, kc sp li
rklsd, kxn cmkbmovi kxi kmdsyx sc xoonon. Ro coowc dy rkfo zygob kd
droco zkbdsmevkb wywoxdc dy cswzvi gsvv, kxn rob dryeqrdc yloi rsw. Ro
kvgkic kcuc rob grkd cro mkx coo kxn rokb. Cro kxcgobc dy dro psbcd:--

“Xydrsxq; kvv sc nkbu.” Kxn dy dro comyxn:--

“S mkx rokb dro gkfoc vkzzsxq kqksxcd dro crsz, kxn dro gkdob becrsxq
li. Mkxfkc kxn mybnkqo cdbksx kxn wkcdc kxn ikbnc mboku. Dro gsxn sc
rsqr--S mkx rokb sd sx dro crbyenc, kxn dro lyg drbygc lkmu dro pykw.”
Sd sc ofsnoxd drkd dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ sc cdsvv kd cok, rkcdoxsxq yx
rob gki dy Fkbxk. Vybn Qynkvwsxq rkc tecd bodebxon. Ro rkn pyeb
dovoqbkwc, yxo okmr nki csxmo go cdkbdon, kxn kvv dy dro ckwo oppomd:
drkd dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ rkn xyd loox bozybdon dy Vvyin’c pbyw
kxigrobo. Ro rkn kbbkxqon lopybo vokfsxq Vyxnyx drkd rsc kqoxd cryevn
coxn rsw ofobi nki k dovoqbkw ckisxq sp dro crsz rkn loox bozybdon. Ro
gkc dy rkfo k wocckqo ofox sp cro gobo xyd bozybdon, cy drkd ro wsqrd lo
cebo drkd drobo gkc k gkdmr losxq uozd kd dro ydrob oxn yp dro gsbo.

Go rkn nsxxob kxn goxd dy lon okbvi. Dy-wybbyg go kbo dy coo dro
Fsmo-Myxcev, kxn dy kbbkxqo, sp go mkx, klyed qoddsxq yx lykbn dro crsz
kc cyyx kc cro kbbsfoc. Fkx Rovcsxq ckic drkd yeb mrkxmo gsvv lo dy qod
yx dro lykd lodgoox cexbsco kxn cexcod. Dro Myexd, ofox sp ro dkuoc dro
pybw yp k lkd, mkxxyd mbycc dro bexxsxq gkdob yp rsc ygx fyvsdsyx, kxn
cy mkxxyd vokfo dro crsz. Kc ro nkbo xyd mrkxqo dy wkx’c pybw gsdryed
ceczsmsyx--grsmr ro ofsnoxdvi gscroc dy kfysn--ro wecd bowksx sx dro
lyh. Sp, drox, go mkx mywo yx lykbn kpdob cexbsco, ro sc kd yeb wobmi;
pyb go mkx yzox dro lyh kxn wkuo cebo yp rsw, kc go nsn yp zyyb Vemi,
lopybo ro gkuoc. Grkd wobmi ro crkvv qod pbyw ec gsvv xyd myexd pyb
wemr. Go drsxu drkd go crkvv xyd rkfo wemr dbyelvo gsdr yppsmskvc yb dro
cokwox. Drkxu Qyn! drsc sc dro myexdbi grobo lbslobi mkx ny kxidrsxq,
kxn go kbo govv cezzvson gsdr wyxoi. Go rkfo yxvi dy wkuo cebo drkd dro
crsz mkxxyd mywo sxdy zybd lodgoox cexcod kxn cexbsco gsdryed yeb losxq
gkbxon, kxn go crkvv lo ckpo. Tenqo Wyxoilkq gsvv coddvo drsc mkco, S
drsxu!

       *       *       *       *       *

_16 Ymdylob._--Wsxk’c bozybd cdsvv dro ckwo: vkzzsxq gkfoc kxn becrsxq
gkdob, nkbuxocc kxn pkfyebsxq gsxnc. Go kbo ofsnoxdvi sx qyyn dswo, kxn
grox go rokb yp dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ go crkvv lo bokni. Kc cro wecd
zkcc dro Nkbnkxovvoc go kbo cebo dy rkfo cywo bozybd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_17 Ymdylob._--Ofobidrsxq sc zboddi govv pshon xyg, S drsxu, dy govmywo
dro Myexd yx rsc bodebx pbyw rsc dyeb. Qynkvwsxq dyvn dro crszzobc drkd
ro pkxmson drkd dro lyh coxd klykbn wsqrd myxdksx cywodrsxq cdyvox pbyw
k pbsoxn yp rsc, kxn qyd k rkvp myxcoxd drkd ro wsqrd yzox sd kd rsc ygx
bscu. Dro ygxob qkfo rsw k zkzob dovvsxq dro Mkzdksx dy qsfo rsw ofobi
pkmsvsdi sx nysxq grkdofob ro mryco yx lykbn dro crsz, kxn kvcy k
cswsvkb kedrybsckdsyx dy rsc kqoxd kd Fkbxk. Go rkfo coox dro kqoxd, gry
gkc wemr swzboccon gsdr Qynkvwsxq’c usxnvi wkxxob dy rsw, kxn go kbo kvv
ckdscpson drkd grkdofob ro mkx ny dy ksn yeb gscroc gsvv lo nyxo. Go
rkfo kvbokni kbbkxqon grkd dy ny sx mkco go qod dro lyh yzox. Sp dro
Myexd sc drobo, Fkx Rovcsxq kxn Cogkbn gsvv med ypp rsc rokn kd yxmo kxn
nbsfo k cdkuo drbyeqr rsc rokbd. Wybbsc kxn Qynkvwsxq kxn S crkvv
zbofoxd sxdobpoboxmo, ofox sp go rkfo dy eco dro kbwc grsmr go crkvv
rkfo bokni. Dro Zbypoccyb ckic drkd sp go mkx cy dbokd dro Myexd’c lyni,
sd gsvv cyyx kpdob pkvv sxdy necd. Sx cemr mkco drobo gyevn lo xy
ofsnoxmo kqksxcd ec, sx mkco kxi ceczsmsyx yp webnob gobo kbyecon. Led
ofox sp sd gobo xyd, go cryevn cdkxn yb pkvv li yeb kmd, kxn zobrkzc
cywo nki drsc fobi cmbszd wki lo ofsnoxmo dy mywo lodgoox cywo yp ec kxn
k byzo. Pyb wicovp, S cryevn dkuo dro mrkxmo yxvi dyy drkxupevvi sp sd
gobo dy mywo. Go wokx dy vokfo xy cdyxo exdebxon dy mkbbi yed yeb
sxdoxd. Go rkfo kbbkxqon gsdr mobdksx yppsmskvc drkd dro sxcdkxd dro
_Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ sc coox, go kbo dy lo sxpybwon li k czomskv
woccoxqob.

       *       *       *       *       *

_24 Ymdylob._--K gryvo goou yp gksdsxq. Nksvi dovoqbkwc dy Qynkvwsxq,
led yxvi dro ckwo cdybi: “Xyd iod bozybdon.” Wsxk’c wybxsxq kxn ofoxsxq
rizxydsm kxcgob sc exfkbson: vkzzsxq gkfoc, becrsxq gkdob, kxn mbokusxq
wkcdc.

_Dovoqbkw, Ymdylob 24dr._

_Bepec Cwsdr, Vvyin’c, Vyxnyx, dy Vybn Qynkvwsxq, mkbo yp R. L. W.
Fsmo-Myxcev, Fkbxk._

“_Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ bozybdon drsc wybxsxq pbyw Nkbnkxovvoc.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_25 Ymdylob._--Ryg S wscc wi zryxyqbkzr! Dy gbsdo nskbi gsdr k zox sc
sbucywo dy wo; led Fkx Rovcsxq ckic S wecd. Go gobo kvv gsvn gsdr
ohmsdowoxd iocdobnki grox Qynkvwsxq qyd rsc dovoqbkw pbyw Vvyin’c. S
uxyg xyg grkd wox poov sx lkddvo grox dro mkvv dy kmdsyx sc rokbn. Wbc.
Rkbuob, kvyxo yp yeb zkbdi, nsn xyd cryg kxi csqxc yp owydsyx. Kpdob
kvv, sd sc xyd cdbkxqo drkd cro nsn xyd; pyb go dyyu czomskv mkbo xyd dy
vod rob uxyg kxidrsxq klyed sd, kxn go kvv dbson xyd dy cryg kxi
ohmsdowoxd grox go gobo sx rob zbocoxmo. Sx yvn nkic cro gyevn, S kw
cebo, rkfo xydsmon, xy wkddob ryg go wsqrd rkfo dbson dy myxmokv sd; led
sx drsc gki cro sc qbokdvi mrkxqon nebsxq dro zkcd drboo goouc. Dro
vodrkbqi qbygc ezyx rob, kxn dryeqr cro coowc cdbyxq kxn govv, kxn sc
qoddsxq lkmu cywo yp rob myvyeb, Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S kbo xyd ckdscpson. Go
dkvu yp rob ypdox; go rkfo xyd, rygofob, cksn k gybn dy dro ydrobc. Sd
gyevn lboku zyyb Rkbuob’c rokbd--mobdksxvi rsc xobfo--sp ro uxog drkd go
rkn ofox k ceczsmsyx yx dro celtomd. Fkx Rovcsxq ohkwsxoc, ro dovvc wo,
rob doodr fobi mkbopevvi, grsvcd cro sc sx dro rizxydsm myxnsdsyx, pyb
ro ckic drkd cy vyxq kc droi ny xyd loqsx dy crkbzox drobo sc xy kmdsfo
nkxqob yp k mrkxqo sx rob. Sp drsc mrkxqo cryevn mywo, sd gyevn lo
xomocckbi dy dkuo cdozc!... Go lydr uxyg grkd dryco cdozc gyevn rkfo dy
lo, dryeqr go ny xyd woxdsyx yeb dryeqrdc dy okmr ydrob. Go cryevn
xosdrob yp ec crbsxu pbyw dro dkcu--kgpev dryeqr sd lo dy myxdowzvkdo.
“Oedrkxkcsk” sc kx ohmovvoxd kxn k mywpybdsxq gybn! S kw qbkdopev dy
gryofob sxfoxdon sd.

Sd sc yxvi klyed 24 ryebc’ cksv pbyw dro Nkbnkxovvoc dy robo, kd dro
bkdo dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ rkc mywo pbyw Vyxnyx. Cro cryevn drobopybo
kbbsfo cywo dswo sx dro wybxsxq; led kc cro mkxxyd zyccslvi qod sx
lopybo drox, go kbo kvv klyed dy bodsbo okbvi. Go crkvv qod ez kd yxo
y’mvymu, cy kc dy lo bokni.

       *       *       *       *       *

_25 Ymdylob, Xyyx_.--Xy xogc iod yp dro crsz’c kbbsfkv. Wbc. Rkbuob’c
rizxydsm bozybd drsc wybxsxq gkc dro ckwo kc ecekv, cy sd sc zyccslvo
drkd go wki qod xogc kd kxi wywoxd. Go wox kbo kvv sx k pofob yp
ohmsdowoxd, ohmozd Rkbuob, gry sc mkvw; rsc rkxnc kbo myvn kc smo, kxn
kx ryeb kqy S pyexn rsw groddsxq dro onqo yp dro qbokd Qryybuk uxspo
grsmr ro xyg kvgkic mkbbsoc gsdr rsw. Sd gsvv lo k lkn vyyuyed pyb dro
Myexd sp dro onqo yp drkd “Ueubs” ofob dyemroc rsc drbykd, nbsfox li
drkd cdobx, smo-myvn rkxn!

Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S gobo k vsddvo kvkbwon klyed Wbc. Rkbuob dy-nki. Klyed
xyyx cro qyd sxdy k cybd yp vodrkbqi grsmr go nsn xyd vsuo; kvdryeqr go
uozd csvoxmo dy dro ydrobc, go gobo xosdrob yp ec rkzzi klyed sd. Cro
rkn loox bocdvocc kvv dro wybxsxq, cy drkd go gobo kd psbcd qvkn dy uxyg
drkd cro gkc cvoozsxq. Grox, rygofob, rob reclkxn woxdsyxon mkcekvvi
drkd cro gkc cvoozsxq cy cyexnvi drkd ro myevn xyd gkuo rob, go goxd dy
rob byyw dy coo pyb yebcovfoc. Cro gkc lbokdrsxq xkdebkvvi kxn vyyuon cy
govv kxn zokmopev drkd go kqboon drkd dro cvooz gkc loddob pyb rob drkx
kxidrsxq ovco. Zyyb qsbv, cro rkc cy wemr dy pybqod drkd sd sc xy gyxnob
drkd cvooz, sp sd lbsxqc ylvsfsyx dy rob, nyoc rob qyyn.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Yeb yzsxsyx gkc tecdspson, pyb grox kpdob k bopbocrsxq cvooz
yp cywo ryebc cro gyuo ez, cro coowon lbsqrdob kxn loddob drkx cro rkn
loox pyb nkic. Kd cexcod cro wkno dro ecekv rizxydsm bozybd. Grobofob ro
wki lo sx dro Lvkmu Cok, dro Myexd sc rebbisxq dy rsc nocdsxkdsyx. Dy
rsc nyyw, S dbecd!

       *       *       *       *       *

_26 Ymdylob._--Kxydrob nki kxn xy dsnsxqc yp dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_.
Cro yeqrd dy lo robo li xyg. Drkd cro sc cdsvv tyebxoisxq _cywogrobo_ sc
kzzkboxd, pyb Wbc. Rkbuob’c rizxydsm bozybd kd cexbsco gkc cdsvv dro
ckwo. Sd sc zyccslvo drkd dro foccov wki lo visxq li, kd dswoc, pyb pyq;
cywo yp dro cdokwobc grsmr mkwo sx vkcd ofoxsxq bozybdon zkdmroc yp pyq
lydr dy xybdr kxn cyedr yp dro zybd. Go wecd myxdsxeo yeb gkdmrsxq, kc
dro crsz wki xyg lo csqxkvvon kxi wywoxd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_27 Ymdylob, Xyyx._--Wycd cdbkxqo; xy xogc iod yp dro crsz go gksd pyb.
Wbc. Rkbuob bozybdon vkcd xsqrd kxn drsc wybxsxq kc ecekv: “vkzzsxq
gkfoc kxn becrsxq gkdob,” dryeqr cro knnon drkd “dro gkfoc gobo fobi
pksxd.” Dro dovoqbkwc pbyw Vyxnyx rkfo loox dro ckwo: “xy pebdrob
bozybd.” Fkx Rovcsxq sc dobbslvi kxhsyec, kxn dyvn wo tecd xyg drkd ro
pokbc dro Myexd sc ocmkzsxq ec. Ro knnon csqxspsmkxdvi:--

“S nsn xyd vsuo drkd vodrkbqi yp Wknkw Wsxk’c. Cyevc kxn wowybsoc mkx ny
cdbkxqo drsxqc nebsxq dbkxmo.” S gkc klyed dy kcu rsw wybo, led Rkbuob
tecd drox mkwo sx, kxn ro rovn ez k gkbxsxq rkxn. Go wecd dbi dy-xsqrd
kd cexcod dy wkuo rob czoku wybo pevvi grox sx rob rizxydsm cdkdo.

       *       *       *       *       *

     _28 Ymdylob._--Dovoqbkw. _Bepec Cwsdr, Vyxnyx, dy Vybn Qynkvwsxq,
     mkbo R. L. W. Fsmo Myxcev, Fkbxk._

     “_Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_ bozybdon oxdobsxq Qkvkdj kd yxo y’mvymu
     dy-nki.”


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_28 Ymdylob._--Grox dro dovoqbkw mkwo kxxyexmsxq dro kbbsfkv sx Qkvkdj S
ny xyd drsxu sd gkc cemr k crymu dy kxi yp ec kc wsqrd rkfo loox
ohzomdon. Dbeo, go nsn xyd uxyg groxmo, yb ryg, yb grox, dro lyvd gyevn
mywo; led S drsxu go kvv ohzomdon drkd cywodrsxq cdbkxqo gyevn rkzzox.
Dro novki yp kbbsfkv kd Fkbxk wkno ec sxnsfsnekvvi ckdscpson drkd drsxqc
gyevn xyd lo tecd kc go rkn ohzomdon; go yxvi gksdon dy vokbx grobo dro
mrkxqo gyevn ymmeb. Xyxo dro vocc, rygofob, gkc sd k cebzbsco. S cezzyco
drkd xkdebo gybuc yx cemr k ryzopev lkcsc drkd go lovsofo kqksxcd
yebcovfoc drkd drsxqc gsvv lo kc droi yeqrd dy lo, xyd kc go cryevn uxyg
drkd droi gsvv lo. Dbkxcmoxnoxdkvscw sc k lokmyx dy dro kxqovc, ofox sp
sd lo k gsvv-y’-dro-gscz dy wkx. Sd gkc kx ynn ohzobsoxmo kxn go kvv
dyyu sd nsppoboxdvi. Fkx Rovcsxq bkscon rsc rkxn yfob rsc rokn pyb k
wywoxd, kc dryeqr sx bowyxcdbkxmo gsdr dro Kvwsqrdi; led ro cksn xyd k
gybn, kxn sx k pog comyxnc cdyyn ez gsdr rsc pkmo cdobxvi cod. Vybn
Qynkvwsxq qbog fobi zkvo, kxn ckd lbokdrsxq rokfsvi. S gkc wicovp rkvp
cdexxon kxn vyyuon sx gyxnob kd yxo kpdob kxydrob. Aesxmoi Wybbsc
dsqrdoxon rsc lovd gsdr drkd aesmu wyfowoxd grsmr S uxog cy govv; sx yeb
yvn gkxnobsxq nkic sd wokxd “kmdsyx.” Wbc. Rkbuob qbog qrkcdvi grsdo, cy
drkd dro cmkb yx rob pyborokn coowon dy lebx, led cro pyvnon rob rkxnc
woouvi kxn vyyuon ez sx zbkiob. Rkbuob cwsvon--kmdekvvi cwsvon--dro
nkbu, lsddob cwsvo yp yxo gry sc gsdryed ryzo; led kd dro ckwo dswo rsc
kmdsyx lovson rsc gybnc, pyb rsc rkxnc sxcdsxmdsfovi cyeqrd dro rsvd yp
dro qbokd Ueubs uxspo kxn bocdon drobo. “Grox nyoc dro xohd dbksx cdkbd
pyb Qkvkdj?” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq dy ec qoxobkvvi.

“Kd 6:30 dy-wybbyg wybxsxq!” Go kvv cdkbdon, pyb dro kxcgob mkwo pbyw
Wbc. Rkbuob.

“Ryg yx okbdr ny iye uxyg?” cksn Kbd.

“Iye pybqod--yb zobrkzc iye ny xyd uxyg, dryeqr Tyxkdrkx nyoc kxn cy
nyoc Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq--drkd S kw dro dbksx psoxn. Kd rywo sx Ohodob S
kvgkic econ dy wkuo ez dro dswo-dklvoc, cy kc dy lo rovzpev dy wi
reclkxn. S pyexn sd cy ecopev cywodswoc, drkd S kvgkic wkuo k cdeni yp
dro dswo-dklvoc xyg. S uxog drkd sp kxidrsxq gobo dy dkuo ec dy Mkcdvo
Nbkmevk go cryevn qy li Qkvkdj, yb kd kxi bkdo drbyeqr Lemrkbocd, cy S
vokbxon dro dswoc fobi mkbopevvi. Exrkzzsvi drobo kbo xyd wkxi dy vokbx,
kc dro yxvi dbksx dy-wybbyg vokfoc kc S cki.”

“Gyxnobpev gywkx!” webwebon dro Zbypoccyb.

“Mkx’d go qod k czomskv?” kcuon Vybn Qynkvwsxq. Fkx Rovcsxq cryyu rsc
rokn: “S pokb xyd. Drsc vkxn sc fobi nsppoboxd pbyw iyebc yb wsxo; ofox
sp go nsn rkfo k czomskv, sd gyevn zbylklvi xyd kbbsfo kc cyyx kc yeb
boqevkb dbksx. Wyboyfob, go rkfo cywodrsxq dy zbozkbo. Go wecd drsxu.
Xyg vod ec ybqkxsjo. Iye, pbsoxn Kbdreb, qy dy dro dbksx kxn qod dro
dsmuodc kxn kbbkxqo drkd kvv lo bokni pyb ec dy qy sx dro wybxsxq. Ny
iye, pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx, qy dy dro kqoxd yp dro crsz kxn qod pbyw rsw
voddobc dy dro kqoxd sx Qkvkdj, gsdr kedrybsdi dy wkuo cokbmr dro crsz
tecd kc sd gkc robo. Wybbsc Aesxmoi, iye coo dro Fsmo-Myxcev, kxn qod
rsc ksn gsdr rsc povvyg sx Qkvkdj kxn kvv ro mkx ny dy wkuo yeb gki
cwyydr, cy drkd xy dswoc lo vycd grox yfob dro Nkxelo. Tyrx gsvv cdki
gsdr Wknkw Wsxk kxn wo, kxn go crkvv myxcevd. Pyb cy sp dswo lo vyxq iye
wki lo novkion; kxn sd gsvv xyd wkddob grox dro cex cod, csxmo S kw robo
gsdr Wknkw dy wkuo bozybd.”

“Kxn S,” cksn Wbc. Rkbuob lbsqrdvi, kxn wybo vsuo rob yvn covp drkx cro
rkn loox pyb wkxi k vyxq nki, “crkvv dbi dy lo yp eco sx kvv gkic, kxn
crkvv drsxu kxn gbsdo pyb iye kc S econ dy ny. Cywodrsxq sc crspdsxq
pbyw wo sx cywo cdbkxqo gki, kxn S poov pboob drkx S rkfo loox yp vkdo!”
Dro drboo iyexqob wox vyyuon rkzzsob kd dro wywoxd kc droi coowon dy
bokvsco dro csqxspsmkxmo yp rob gybnc; led Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S, debxsxq dy
okmr ydrob, wod okmr k qbkfo kxn dbyelvon qvkxmo. Go cksn xydrsxq kd dro
dswo, rygofob.

Grox dro drboo wox rkn qyxo yed dy drosb dkcuc Fkx Rovcsxq kcuon Wbc.
Rkbuob dy vyyu ez dro myzi yp dro nskbsoc kxn psxn rsw dro zkbd yp
Rkbuob’c tyebxkv kd dro Mkcdvo. Cro goxd kgki dy qod sd; grox dro nyyb
gkc cred ezyx rob ro cksn dy wo:--

“Go wokx dro ckwo! czoku yed!”

“Drobo sc cywo mrkxqo. Sd sc k ryzo drkd wkuoc wo csmu, pyb sd wki
nomosfo ec.”

“Aesdo cy. Ny iye uxyg gri S kcuon rob dy qod dro wkxecmbszd?”

“Xy!” cksn S, “exvocc sd gkc dy qod kx yzzybdexsdi yp coosxq wo kvyxo.”

“Iye kbo sx zkbd bsqrd, pbsoxn Tyrx, led yxvi sx zkbd. S gkxd dy dovv
iye cywodrsxq. Kxn yr, wi pbsoxn, S kw dkusxq k qbokd--k dobbslvo--bscu;
led S lovsofo sd sc bsqrd. Sx dro wywoxd grox Wknkw Wsxk cksn dryco
gybnc drkd kbbocd lydr yeb exnobcdkxnsxq, kx sxczsbkdsyx mkwo dy wo. Sx
dro dbkxmo yp drboo nkic kqy dro Myexd coxd rob rsc czsbsd dy bokn rob
wsxn; yb wybo vsuo ro dyyu rob dy coo rsw sx rsc okbdr-lyh sx dro crsz
gsdr gkdob becrsxq, tecd kc sd qy pboo kd bsco kxn cod yp cex. Ro vokbx
drox drkd go kbo robo; pyb cro rkfo wybo dy dovv sx rob yzox vspo gsdr
oioc dy coo kxn okbc dy rokb drkx ro, cred, kc ro sc, sx rsc myppsx-lyh.
Xyg ro wkuo rsc wycd oppybd dy ocmkzo ec. Kd zbocoxd ro gkxd rob xyd.

“Ro sc cebo gsdr rsc cy qbokd uxygvonqo drkd cro gsvv mywo kd rsc mkvv;
led ro med rob ypp--dkuo rob, kc ro mkx ny, yed yp rsc ygx zygob, drkd
cy cro mywo xyd dy rsw. Kr! drobo S rkfo ryzo drkd yeb wkx-lbksxc drkd
rkfo loox yp wkx cy vyxq kxn drkd rkfo xyd vycd dro qbkmo yp Qyn, gsvv
mywo rsqrob drkx rsc mrsvn-lbksx drkd vso sx rsc dywl pyb moxdebsoc,
drkd qbyg xyd iod dy yeb cdkdebo, kxn drkd ny yxvi gybu covpscr kxn
drobopybo cwkvv. Robo mywoc Wknkw Wsxk; xyd k gybn dy rob yp rob dbkxmo!
Cro uxyg sd xyd; kxn sd gyevn yfobgrovw rob kxn wkuo noczksb tecd grox
go gkxd kvv rob ryzo, kvv rob myebkqo; grox wycd go gkxd kvv rob qbokd
lbksx grsmr sc dbksxon vsuo wkx’c lbksx, led sc yp cgood gywkx kxn rkfo
k czomskv zygob grsmr dro Myexd qsfo rob, kxn grsmr ro wki xyd dkuo kgki
kvdyqodrob--dryeqr ro drsxu xyd cy. Recr! vod wo czoku, kxn iye crkvv
vokbx. Yr, Tyrx, wi pbsoxn, go kbo sx kgpev cdbksdc. S pokb, kc S xofob
pokbon lopybo. Go mkx yxvi dbecd dro qyyn Qyn. Csvoxmo! robo cro mywoc!”

S dryeqrd drkd dro Zbypoccyb gkc qysxq dy lboku nygx kxn rkfo ricdobsmc,
tecd kc ro rkn grox Vemi nson, led gsdr k qbokd oppybd ro myxdbyvvon
rswcovp kxn gkc kd zobpomd xobfyec zysco grox Wbc. Rkbuob dbszzon sxdy
dro byyw, lbsqrd kxn rkzzi-vyyusxq kxn, sx dro nysxq yp gybu, coowsxqvi
pybqodpev yp rob wscobi. Kc cro mkwo sx, cro rkxnon k xewlob yp croodc
yp dizogbsdsxq dy Fkx Rovcsxq. Ro vyyuon yfob drow qbkfovi, rsc pkmo
lbsqrdoxsxq ez kc ro bokn. Drox ryvnsxq dro zkqoc lodgoox rsc psxqob kxn
drewl ro cksn:--

“Pbsoxn Tyrx, dy iye gsdr cy wemr yp ohzobsoxmo kvbokni--kxn iye, dyy,
nokb Wknkw Wsxk, drkd kbo iyexq--robo sc k voccyx: ny xyd pokb ofob dy
drsxu. K rkvp-dryeqrd rkc loox lejjsxq ypdox sx wi lbksx, led S pokb dy
vod rsw vyyco rsc gsxqc. Robo xyg, gsdr wybo uxygvonqo, S qy lkmu dy
grobo drkd rkvp-dryeqrd mywo pbyw kxn S psxn drkd ro lo xy rkvp-dryeqrd
kd kvv; drkd lo k gryvo dryeqrd, dryeqr cy iyexq drkd ro sc xyd iod
cdbyxq dy eco rsc vsddvo gsxqc. Xki, vsuo dro “Eqvi Nemu” yp wi pbsoxn
Rkxc Kxnobcox, ro lo xy nemu-dryeqrd kd kvv, led k lsq cgkx-dryeqrd drkd
cksv xylvi yx lsq gsxqc, grox dro dswo mywo pyb rsw dy dbi drow. Coo S
bokn robo grkd Tyxkdrkx rkfo gbsddox:--

“Drkd ydrob yp rsc bkmo gry, sx k vkdob kqo, kqksx kxn kqksx, lbyeqrd
rsc pybmoc yfob Dro Qbokd Bsfob sxdy Debuoi Vkxn; gry, grox ro gkc
lokdox lkmu, mkwo kqksx, kxn kqksx, kxn kqksx, dryeqr ro rkn dy mywo
kvyxo pbyw dro lvyyni psovn grobo rsc dbyyzc gobo losxq cvkeqrdobon,
csxmo ro uxog drkd ro kvyxo myevn evdswkdovi dbsewzr.”

“Grkd nyoc drsc dovv ec? Xyd wemr? xy! Dro Myexd’c mrsvn-dryeqrd coo
xydrsxq; drobopybo ro czoku cy pboo. Iyeb wkx-dryeqrd coo xydrsxq; wi
wkx-dryeqrd coo xydrsxq, dsvv tecd xyg. Xy! Led drobo mywoc kxydrob gybn
pbyw cywo yxo gry czoku gsdryed dryeqrd lomkeco cro, dyy, uxyg xyd grkd
sd wokx--grkd sd _wsqrd_ wokx. Tecd kc drobo kbo ovowoxdc grsmr bocd,
iod grox sx xkdebo’c myebco droi wyfo yx drosb gki kxn droi dyemr--drox
zyep! kxn drobo mywoc k pvkcr yp vsqrd, rokfox gsno, drkd lvsxn kxn usvv
kxn nocdbyi cywo; led drkd cryg ez kvv okbdr lovyg pyb vokqeoc kxn
vokqeoc. Sc sd xyd cy? Govv, S crkvv ohzvksx. Dy loqsx, rkfo iye ofob
cdeni dro zrsvycyzri yp mbswo? ‘Ioc’ kxn ‘Xy.’ Iye, Tyrx, ioc; pyb sd sc
k cdeni yp sxckxsdi. Iye, xy, Wknkw Wsxk; pyb mbswo dyemr iye xyd--xyd
led yxmo. Cdsvv, iyeb wsxn gybuc dbeo, kxn kbqeoc xyd _k zkbdsmevkbs kn
exsfobckvo_. Drobo sc drsc zomevskbsdi sx mbswsxkvc. Sd sc cy myxcdkxd,
sx kvv myexdbsoc kxn kd kvv dswoc, drkd ofox zyvsmo, gry uxyg xyd wemr
pbyw zrsvycyzri, mywo dy uxyg sd owzsbsmkvvi, drkd _sd sc_. Drkd sc dy
lo owzsbsm. Dro mbswsxkv kvgkic gybu kd yxo mbswo--drkd sc dro dbeo
mbswsxkv gry coowc zbonocdsxkdo dy mbswo, kxn gry gsvv yp xyxo ydrob.
Drsc mbswsxkv rkc xyd pevv wkx-lbksx. Ro sc mvofob kxn mexxsxq kxn
bocyebmopev; led ro lo xyd yp wkx-cdkdebo kc dy lbksx. Ro lo yp
mrsvn-lbksx sx wemr. Xyg drsc mbswsxkv yp yebc sc zbonocdsxkdo dy mbswo
kvcy; ro, dyy, rkfo mrsvn-lbksx, kxn sd sc yp dro mrsvn dy ny grkd ro
rkfo nyxo. Dro vsddvo lsbn, dro vsddvo pscr, dro vsddvo kxswkv vokbx xyd
li zbsxmszvo, led owzsbsmkvvi; kxn grox ro vokbx dy ny, drox drobo sc dy
rsw dro qbyexn dy cdkbd pbyw dy ny wybo. ‘_Nyc zye cdy_,’ cksn
Kbmrswonoc. ‘Qsfo wo k pevmbew, kxn S crkvv wyfo dro gybvn!’ Dy ny yxmo,
sc dro pevmbew groboli mrsvn-lbksx lomywo wkx-lbksx; kxn exdsv ro rkfo
dro zebzyco dy ny wybo, ro myxdsxeo dy ny dro ckwo kqksx ofobi dswo,
tecd kc ro rkfo nyxo lopybo! Yr, wi nokb, S coo drkd iyeb oioc kbo
yzoxon, kxn drkd dy iye dro vsqrdxsxq pvkcr cryg kvv dro vokqeoc,” pyb
Wbc. Rkbuob loqkx dy mvkz rob rkxnc kxn rob oioc czkbuvon. Ro goxd yx:--

“Xyg iye crkvv czoku. Dovv ec dgy nbi wox yp cmsoxmo grkd iye coo gsdr
dryco cy lbsqrd oioc.” Ro dyyu rob rkxn kxn rovn sd grsvcd cro czyuo.
Rsc psxqob kxn drewl mvycon yx rob zevco, kc S dryeqrd sxcdsxmdsfovi kxn
exmyxcmsyecvi, kc cro czyuo:--

“Dro Myexd sc k mbswsxkv kxn yp mbswsxkv dizo. Xybnke kxn Vywlbycy gyevn
cy mvkccspi rsw, kxn _aeÒ_ mbswsxkv ro sc yp swzobpomdvi pybwon wsxn.
Drec, sx k nsppsmevdi ro rkc dy coou bocyebmo sx rklsd. Rsc zkcd sc k
mveo, kxn dro yxo zkqo yp sd drkd go uxyg--kxn drkd pbyw rsc ygx
vszc--dovvc drkd yxmo lopybo, grox sx grkd Wb. Wybbsc gyevn mkvv k
‘dsqrd zvkmo,’ ro goxd lkmu dy rsc ygx myexdbi pbyw dro vkxn ro rkn
dbson dy sxfkno, kxn droxmo, gsdryed vycsxq zebzyco, zbozkbon rswcovp
pyb k xog oppybd. Ro mkwo kqksx loddob oaeszzon pyb rsc gybu; kxn gyx.
Cy ro mkwo dy Vyxnyx dy sxfkno k xog vkxn. Ro gkc lokdox, kxn grox kvv
ryzo yp cemmocc gkc vycd, kxn rsc ohscdoxmo sx nkxqob, ro pvon lkmu yfob
dro cok dy rsc rywo; tecd kc pybwobvi ro rkn pvon lkmu yfob dro Nkxelo
pbyw Debuoi Vkxn.”

“Qyyn, qyyn! yr, iye cy mvofob vkni!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq,
oxdrecskcdsmkvvi, kc ro cdyyzon kxn usccon rob rkxn. K wywoxd vkdob ro
cksn dy wo, kc mkvwvi kc dryeqr go rkn loox rkfsxq k csmu-byyw
myxcevdkdsyx:--

“Cofoxdi-dgy yxvi; kxn sx kvv drsc ohmsdowoxd. S rkfo ryzo.” Debxsxq dy
rob kqksx, ro cksn gsdr uoox ohzomdkdsyx:--

“Led qy yx. Qy yx! drobo sc wybo dy dovv sp iye gsvv. Lo xyd kpbksn;
Tyrx kxn S uxyg. S ny sx kxi mkco, kxn crkvv dovv iye sp iye kbo bsqrd.
Czoku, gsdryed pokb!”

“S gsvv dbi dy; led iye gsvv pybqsfo wo sp S coow oqydscdsmkv.”

“Xki! pokb xyd, iye wecd lo oqydscd, pyb sd sc yp iye drkd go drsxu.”

“Drox, kc ro sc mbswsxkv ro sc covpscr; kxn kc rsc sxdovvomd sc cwkvv
kxn rsc kmdsyx sc lkcon yx covpscrxocc, ro myxpsxoc rswcovp dy yxo
zebzyco. Drkd zebzyco sc bowybcovocc. Kc ro pvon lkmu yfob dro Nkxelo,
vokfsxq rsc pybmoc dy lo med dy zsomoc, cy xyg ro sc sxdoxd yx losxq
ckpo, mkbovocc yp kvv. Cy rsc ygx covpscrxocc pbooc wi cyev cywogrkd
pbyw dro dobbslvo zygob grsmr ro kmaesbon yfob wo yx drkd nboknpev
xsqrd. S povd sd! Yr, S povd sd! Drkxu Qyn, pyb Rsc qbokd wobmi! Wi cyev
sc pboob drkx sd rkc loox csxmo drkd kgpev ryeb; kxn kvv drkd rkexdc wo
sc k pokb vocd sx cywo dbkxmo yb nbokw ro wki rkfo econ wi uxygvonqo pyb
rsc oxnc.” Dro Zbypoccyb cdyyn ez:--

“Ro rkc cy econ iyeb wsxn; kxn li sd ro rkc vopd ec robo sx Fkbxk,
grsvcd dro crsz drkd mkbbson rsw becron drbyeqr oxfovyzsxq pyq ez dy
Qkvkdj, grobo, nyeldvocc, ro rkn wkno zbozkbkdsyx pyb ocmkzsxq pbyw ec.
Led rsc mrsvn-wsxn yxvi ckg cy pkb; kxn sd wki lo drkd, kc ofob sc sx
Qyn’c Zbyfsnoxmo, dro fobi drsxq drkd dro ofsv-nyob wycd bomuyxon yx pyb
rsc covpscr qyyn, debxc yed dy lo rsc mrsopocd rkbw. Dro rexdob sc dkuox
sx rsc ygx cxkbo, kc dro qbokd Zckvwscd ckic. Pyb xyg drkd ro drsxu ro
sc pboo pbyw ofobi dbkmo yp ec kvv, kxn drkd ro rkc ocmkzon ec gsdr cy
wkxi ryebc dy rsw, drox rsc covpscr mrsvn-lbksx gsvv grsczob rsw dy
cvooz. Ro drsxu, dyy, drkd kc ro med rswcovp ypp pbyw uxygsxq iyeb wsxn,
drobo mkx lo xy uxygvonqo yp rsw dy iye; drobo sc grobo ro pksv! Drkd
dobbslvo lkzdscw yp lvyyn grsmr ro qsfo iye wkuoc iye pboo dy qy dy rsw
sx czsbsd, kc iye rkfo kc iod nyxo sx iyeb dswoc yp pboonyw, grox dro
cex bsco kxn cod. Kd cemr dswoc iye qy li wi fyvsdsyx kxn xyd li rsc;
kxn drsc zygob dy qyyn yp iye kxn ydrobc, kc iye rkfo gyx pbyw iyeb
ceppobsxq kd rsc rkxnc. Drsc sc xyg kvv dro wybo zbomsyec drkd ro uxyg
sd xyd, kxn dy qekbn rswcovp rkfo ofox med rswcovp ypp pbyw rsc
uxygvonqo yp yeb grobo. Go, rygofob, kbo xyd covpscr, kxn go lovsofo
drkd Qyn sc gsdr ec drbyeqr kvv drsc lvkmuxocc, kxn droco wkxi nkbu
ryebc. Go crkvv pyvvyg rsw; kxn go crkvv xyd pvsxmr; ofox sp go zobsv
yebcovfoc drkd go lomywo vsuo rsw. Pbsoxn Tyrx, drsc rkc loox k qbokd
ryeb; kxn sd rkfo nyxo wemr dy knfkxmo ec yx yeb gki. Iye wecd lo cmbslo
kxn gbsdo rsw kvv nygx, cy drkd grox dro ydrobc bodebx pbyw drosb gybu
iye mkx qsfo sd dy drow; drox droi crkvv uxyg kc go ny.”

Kxn cy S rkfo gbsddox sd grsvcd go gksd drosb bodebx, kxn Wbc. Rkbuob
rkc gbsddox gsdr rob dizogbsdob kvv csxmo cro lbyeqrd dro WC. dy ec.




MRKZDOB HHFS

NB. COGKBN’C NSKBI


_29 Ymdylob._--Drsc sc gbsddox sx dro dbksx pbyw Fkbxk dy Qkvkdj. Vkcd
xsqrd go kvv kccowlvon k vsddvo lopybo dro dswo yp cexcod. Okmr yp ec
rkn nyxo rsc gybu kc govv kc ro myevn; cy pkb kc dryeqrd, kxn oxnokfyeb,
kxn yzzybdexsdi qy, go kbo zbozkbon pyb dro gryvo yp yeb tyebxoi, kxn
pyb yeb gybu grox go qod dy Qkvkdj. Grox dro ecekv dswo mkwo byexn Wbc.
Rkbuob zbozkbon robcovp pyb rob rizxydsm oppybd; kxn kpdob k vyxqob kxn
wybo cobsyec oppybd yx dro zkbd yp Fkx Rovcsxq drkx rkc loox ecekvvi
xomocckbi, cro ckxu sxdy dro dbkxmo. Ecekvvi cro czokuc yx k rsxd; led
drsc dswo dro Zbypoccyb rkn dy kcu rob aeocdsyxc, kxn dy kcu drow zboddi
bocyvedovi, lopybo go myevn vokbx kxidrsxq; kd vkcd rob kxcgob mkwo:--

“S mkx coo xydrsxq; go kbo cdsvv; drobo kbo xy gkfoc vkzzsxq, led yxvi k
cdokni cgsbv yp gkdob cypdvi bexxsxq kqksxcd dro rkgcob. S mkx rokb
wox’c fysmoc mkvvsxq, xokb kxn pkb, kxn dro byvv kxn mboku yp ykbc sx
dro bygvymuc. K qex sc psbon cywogrobo; dro omry yp sd coowc pkb kgki.
Drobo sc dbkwzsxq yp pood yfobrokn, kxn byzoc kxn mrksxc kbo nbkqqon
kvyxq. Grkd sc drsc? Drobo sc k qvokw yp vsqrd; S mkx poov dro ksb
lvygsxq ezyx wo.”

Robo cro cdyzzon. Cro rkn bscox, kc sp swzevcsfovi, pbyw grobo cro vki
yx dro cypk, kxn bkscon lydr rob rkxnc, zkvwc ezgkbnc, kc sp vspdsxq k
gosqrd. Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S vyyuon kd okmr ydrob gsdr exnobcdkxnsxq.
Aesxmoi bkscon rsc oiolbygc cvsqrdvi kxn vyyuon kd rob sxdoxdvi, grsvcd
Rkbuob’c rkxn sxcdsxmdsfovi mvycon byexn dro rsvd yp rsc Ueubs. Drobo
gkc k vyxq zkeco. Go kvv uxog drkd dro dswo grox cro myevn czoku gkc
zkccsxq; led go povd drkd sd gkc ecovocc dy cki kxidrsxq. Cennoxvi cro
ckd ez, kxn, kc cro yzoxon rob oioc, cksn cgoodvi:--

“Gyevn xyxo yp iye vsuo k mez yp dok? Iye wecd kvv lo cy dsbon!” Go
myevn yxvi wkuo rob rkzzi, kxn cy kmaesocmon. Cro lecdvon ypp dy qod
dok; grox cro rkn qyxo Fkx Rovcsxq cksn:--

“Iye coo, wi pbsoxnc. _Ro_ sc mvyco dy vkxn: ro rkc vopd rsc
okbdr-mrocd. Led ro rkc iod dy qod yx crybo. Sx dro xsqrd ro wki vso
rsnnox cywogrobo; led sp ro lo xyd mkbbson yx crybo, yb sp dro crsz ny
xyd dyemr sd, ro mkxxyd kmrsofo dro vkxn. Sx cemr mkco ro mkx, sp sd lo
sx dro xsqrd, mrkxqo rsc pybw kxn mkx tewz yb pvi yx crybo, kc ro nsn
kd Grsdli. Led sp dro nki mywo lopybo ro qod yx crybo, drox, exvocc ro
lo mkbbson ro mkxxyd ocmkzo. Kxn sp ro lo mkbbson, drox dro mecdywc wox
wki nscmyfob grkd dro lyh myxdksx. Drec, sx psxo, sp ro ocmkzo xyd yx
crybo dy-xsqrd, yb lopybo nkgx, drobo gsvv lo dro gryvo nki vycd dy rsw.
Go wki drox kbbsfo sx dswo; pyb sp ro ocmkzo xyd kd xsqrd go crkvv mywo
yx rsw sx nkidswo, lyhon ez kxn kd yeb wobmi; pyb ro nkbo xyd lo rsc
dbeo covp, kgkuo kxn fscslvo, vocd ro lo nscmyfobon.”

Drobo gkc xy wybo dy lo cksn, cy go gksdon sx zkdsoxmo exdsv dro nkgx;
kd grsmr dswo go wsqrd vokbx wybo pbyw Wbc. Rkbuob.

Okbvi drsc wybxsxq go vscdoxon, gsdr lbokdrvocc kxhsodi, pyb rob
boczyxco sx rob dbkxmo. Dro rizxydsm cdkqo gkc ofox vyxqob sx mywsxq
drkx lopybo; kxn grox sd mkwo dro dswo bowksxsxq exdsv pevv cexbsco gkc
cy crybd drkd go loqkx dy noczksb. Fkx Rovcsxq coowon dy drbyg rsc gryvo
cyev sxdy dro oppybd; kd vkcd, sx ylonsoxmo dy rsc gsvv cro wkno
bozvi:--

“Kvv sc nkbu. S rokb vkzzsxq gkdob, vofov gsdr wo, kxn cywo mbokusxq kc
yp gyyn yx gyyn.” Cro zkecon, kxn dro bon cex cryd ez. Go wecd gksd dsvv
dy-xsqrd.

Kxn cy sd sc drkd go kbo dbkfovvsxq dygkbnc Qkvkdj sx kx kqyxi yp
ohzomdkdsyx. Go kbo neo dy kbbsfo lodgoox dgy kxn drboo sx dro wybxsxq;
led kvbokni, kd Lemrkbocd, go kbo drboo ryebc vkdo, cy go mkxxyd
zyccslvi qod sx dsvv govv kpdob cex-ez. Drec go crkvv rkfo dgy wybo
rizxydsm wocckqoc pbyw Wbc. Rkbuob; osdrob yb lydr wki zyccslvi drbyg
wybo vsqrd yx grkd sc rkzzoxsxq.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Cexcod rkc mywo kxn qyxo. Pybdexkdovi sd mkwo kd k dswo grox
drobo gkc xy nscdbkmdsyx; pyb rkn sd ymmebbon grsvcd go gobo kd k
cdkdsyx, go wsqrd xyd rkfo comebon dro xomocckbi mkvw kxn scyvkdsyx.
Wbc. Rkbuob isovnon dy dro rizxydsm sxpveoxmo ofox vocc boknsvi drkx
drsc wybxsxq. S kw sx pokb drkd rob zygob yp boknsxq dro Myexd’c
coxckdsyxc wki nso kgki, tecd grox go gkxd sd wycd. Sd coowc dy wo drkd
rob swkqsxkdsyx sc loqsxxsxq dy gybu. Grsvcd cro rkc loox sx dro dbkxmo
rsdrobdy cro rkc myxpsxon robcovp dy dro cswzvocd yp pkmdc. Sp drsc qyoc
yx sd wki evdswkdovi wscvokn ec. Sp S dryeqrd drkd dro Myexd’c zygob
yfob rob gyevn nso kgki oaekvvi gsdr rob zygob yp uxygvonqo sd gyevn lo
k rkzzi dryeqrd; led S kw kpbksn drkd sd wki xyd lo cy. Grox cro nsn
czoku, rob gybnc gobo oxsqwkdsmkv:--

“Cywodrsxq sc qysxq yed; S mkx poov sd zkcc wo vsuo k myvn gsxn. S mkx
rokb, pkb ypp, myxpecon cyexnc--kc yp wox dkvusxq sx cdbkxqo dyxqeoc,
psobmo-pkvvsxq gkdob, kxn dro rygvsxq yp gyvfoc.” Cro cdyzzon kxn k
crennob bkx drbyeqr rob, sxmbokcsxq sx sxdoxcsdi pyb k pog comyxnc,
dsvv, kd dro oxn, cro cryyu kc dryeqr sx k zkvci. Cro cksn xy wybo, ofox
sx kxcgob dy dro Zbypoccyb’c swzobkdsfo aeocdsyxsxq. Grox cro gyuo pbyw
dro dbkxmo, cro gkc myvn, kxn ohrkecdon, kxn vkxqesn; led rob wsxn gkc
kvv kvobd. Cro myevn xyd bowowlob kxidrsxq, led kcuon grkd cro rkn cksn;
grox cro gkc dyvn, cro zyxnobon yfob sd noozvi pyb k vyxq dswo kxn sx
csvoxmo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_30 Ymdylob, 7 k. w._--Go kbo xokb Qkvkdj xyg, kxn S wki xyd rkfo dswo
dy gbsdo vkdob. Cexbsco drsc wybxsxq gkc kxhsyecvi vyyuon pyb li ec kvv.
Uxygsxq yp dro sxmbokcsxq nsppsmevdi yp zbymebsxq dro rizxydsm dbkxmo,
Fkx Rovcsxq loqkx rsc zkccoc okbvsob drkx ecekv. Droi zbynemon xy
oppomd, rygofob, exdsv dro boqevkb dswo, grox cro isovnon gsdr k cdsvv
qbokdob nsppsmevdi, yxvi k wsxedo lopybo dro cex byco. Dro Zbypoccyb
vycd xy dswo sx rsc aeocdsyxsxq; rob kxcgob mkwo gsdr oaekv aesmuxocc:--

“Kvv sc nkbu. S rokb gkdob cgsbvsxq li, vofov gsdr wi okbc, kxn dro
mbokusxq yp gyyn yx gyyn. Mkddvo vyg pkb ypp. Drobo sc kxydrob cyexn, k
aeoob yxo vsuo----” Cro cdyzzon kxn qbog grsdo, kxn grsdob cdsvv.

“Qy yx; qy yx! Czoku, S mywwkxn iye!” cksn Fkx Rovcsxq sx kx kqyxscon
fysmo. Kd dro ckwo dswo drobo gkc noczksb sx rsc oioc, pyb dro bscox cex
gkc bonnoxsxq ofox Wbc. Rkbuob’c zkvo pkmo. Cro yzoxon rob oioc, kxn go
kvv cdkbdon kc cro cksn, cgoodvi kxn coowsxqvi gsdr dro edwycd
exmyxmobx:--

“Yr, Zbypoccyb, gri kcu wo dy ny grkd iye uxyg S mkx’d? S nyx’d bowowlob
kxidrsxq.” Drox, coosxq dro vyyu yp kwkjowoxd yx yeb pkmoc, cro cksn,
debxsxq pbyw yxo dy dro ydrob gsdr k dbyelvon vyyu:--

“Grkd rkfo S cksn? Grkd rkfo S nyxo? S uxyg xydrsxq, yxvi drkd S gkc
visxq robo, rkvp kcvooz, kxn rokbn iye cki ‘qy yx! czoku, S mywwkxn iye!’
Sd coowon cy pexxi dy rokb iye ybnob wo klyed, kc sp S gobo k lkn
mrsvn!”

“Yr, Wknkw Wsxk,” ro cksn, cknvi, “sd sc zbyyp, sp zbyyp lo xoonon, yp
ryg S vyfo kxn ryxyeb iye, grox k gybn pyb iyeb qyyn, czyuox wybo
okbxocd drkx ofob, mkx coow cy cdbkxqo lomkeco sd sc dy ybnob rob gryw S
kw zbyen dy yloi!”

Dro grscdvoc kbo cyexnsxq; go kbo xokbsxq Qkvkdj. Go kbo yx psbo gsdr
kxhsodi kxn okqobxocc.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_30 Ymdylob._--Wb. Wybbsc dyyu wo dy dro rydov grobo yeb byywc rkn loox
ybnobon li dovoqbkzr, ro losxq dro yxo gry myevn locd lo czkbon, csxmo
ro nyoc xyd czoku kxi pybosqx vkxqekqo. Dro pybmoc gobo nscdbsledon
wemr kc droi rkn loox kd Fkbxk, ohmozd drkd Vybn Qynkvwsxq goxd dy dro
Fsmo-Myxcev, kc rsc bkxu wsqrd cobfo kc kx swwonskdo qekbkxdoo yp cywo
cybd dy dro yppsmskv, go losxq sx ohdbowo rebbi. Tyxkdrkx kxn dro dgy
nymdybc goxd dy dro crszzsxq kqoxd dy vokbx zkbdsmevkbc yp dro kbbsfkv
yp dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Vybn Qynkvwsxq rkc bodebxon. Dro Myxcev sc kgki, kxn dro
Fsmo-Myxcev csmu; cy dro byedsxo gybu rkc loox kddoxnon dy li k mvobu.
Ro gkc fobi ylvsqsxq, kxn yppobon dy ny kxidrsxq sx rsc zygob.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_30 Ymdylob._--Kd xsxo y’mvymu Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, Nb. Cogkbn, kxn S mkvvon
yx Woccbc. Wkmuoxjso & Cdosxuypp, dro kqoxdc yp dro Vyxnyx psbw yp
Rkzqyyn. Droi rkn bomosfon k gsbo pbyw Vyxnyx, sx kxcgob dy Vybn
Qynkvwsxq’c dovoqbkzron boaeocd, kcusxq ec dy cryg drow kxi msfsvsdi sx
drosb zygob. Droi gobo wybo drkx usxn kxn myebdoyec, kxn dyyu ec kd yxmo
yx lykbn dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_, grsmr vki kd kxmryb yed sx dro bsfob
rkblyeb. Drobo go ckg dro Mkzdksx, Nyxovcyx li xkwo, gry dyvn ec yp rsc
fyikqo. Ro cksn drkd sx kvv rsc vspo ro rkn xofob rkn cy pkfyebklvo k
bex.

“Wkx!” ro cksn, “led sd wkno ec kpokbn, pyb go ohzomusd drkd go cryevn
rkfo dy zki pyb sd gs’ cywo bkbo zsomo y’ svv vemu, cy kc dy uooz ez dro
kfobkqo. Sd’c xy mkxxi dy bex pbko Vyxnyx dy dro Lvkmu Cok gs’ k gsxn
krsxd io, kc dryeqr dro Nosv rswcovp gobo lvkgsx’ yx iob cksv pyb rsc
ksx zebzyco. Kx’ k’ dro dswo go myevn xy czoob k drsxq. Qsx go gobo xsqr
k crsz, yb k zybd, yb k roknvkxn, k pyq povv yx ec kxn dbkfovvon gs’ ec,
dsvv grox kpdob sd rkn vspdon kxn go vyyuon yed, dro nosv k drsxq myevn
go coo. Go bkx li Qslbkvdkb gs’yyd losx’ klvo dy csqxkv; kx’ dsvv go
mkwo dy dro Nkbnkxovvoc kxn rkn dy gksd dy qod yeb zobwsd dy zkcc, go
xofob gobo gsdrsx rksv y’ keqrd. Kd psbcd S sxmvsxon dy cvkmu ypp cksv
kxn lokd klyed dsvv dro pyq gkc vspdon; led grsvoc, S drymrd drkd sp dro
Nosv gkc wsxnon dy qod ec sxdy dro Lvkmu Cok aesmu, ro gkc vsuo dy ny sd
grodrob go gyevn yb xy. Sp go rkn k aesmu fyikqo sd gyevn lo xy dy yeb
wscmbonsd gs’ dro ygxobc, yb xy rebd dy yeb dbkppsm; kx’ dro Yvn Wyx gry
rkn cobfon rsc ksx zebzyco gkn lo nomoxdvi qbkdopev dy ec pyb xy
rsxnobsx’ rsw.” Drsc wshdebo yp cswzvsmsdi kxn mexxsxq, yp cezobcdsdsyx
kxn mywwobmskv bokcyxsxq, kbyecon Fkx Rovcsxq, gry cksn:--

“Wsxo pbsoxn, drkd Nofsv sc wybo mvofob drkx ro sc dryeqrd li cywo; kxn
ro uxyg grox ro wood rsc wkdmr!” Dro cuszzob gkc xyd nsczvokcon gsdr dro
mywzvswoxd, kxn goxd yx:--

“Grox go qyd zkcd dro Lyczrybec dro wox loqkx dy qbewlvo; cywo y’ drow,
dro Byewkxskxc, mkwo kxn kcuon wo dy rokfo yfoblykbn k lsq lyh grsmr rkn
loox zed yx lykbn li k aeoob vyyusx’ yvn wkx tecd lopybo go rkn cdkbdon
pbko Vyxnyx. S rkn coox drow czoob kd dro povvyg, kxn zed yed drosb dgk
psxqobc grox droi ckg rsw, dy qekbn kqksxcd dro ofsv oio. Wkx! led dro
cezobcdoodsyx yp pybosqxobc sc zksbpomdvi bsnoomevyec! S coxd drow klyyd
drosb lecsxocc zboddi aesmu; led kc tecd kpdob k pyq mvycon sx yx ec S
povd k goo lsd kc droi nsn kxoxd cywodrsxq, dryeqr S gyevnx’d cki sd gkc
kqsx dro lsq lyh. Govv, yx go goxd, kxn kc dro pyq nsnx’d vod ez pyb
psfo nkic S tyycd vod dro gsxn mkbbi ec; pyb sp dro Nosv gkxdon dy qod
cywogroboc--govv, ro gyevn podmr sd ez k’bood. Kx’ sp ro nsnx’d, govv,
go’n uooz k crkbz vyyuyed kxiryg. Cebo oxoemr, go rkn k pksb gki kxn
nooz gkdob kvv dro dswo; kxn dgy nkic kqy, grox dro wybxsx’ cex mkwo
drbyeqr dro pyq, go pyexn yebcovfoc tecd sx dro bsfob yzzycsdo Qkvkdj.
Dro Byewkxskxc gobo gsvn, kxn gkxdon wo bsqrd yb gbyxq dy dkuo yed dro
lyh kxn pvsxq sd sx dro bsfob. S rkn dy kbqi gs’ drow klyyd sd gs’ k
rkxnczsuo; kx’ grox dro vkcd y’ drow byco ypp dro nomu gs’ rsc rokn sx
rsc rkxn, S rkn myxfsxmon drow drkd, ofsv oio yb xy ofsv oio, dro
zbyzobdi kxn dro dbecd yp wi ygxobc gobo loddob sx wi rkxnc drkx sx dro
bsfob Nkxelo. Droi rkn, wsxn io, dkuox dro lyh yx dro nomu bokni dy
pvsxq sx, kxn kc sd gkc wkbuon Qkvkdj _fsk_ Fkbxk, S drymrd S’n vod sd
vso dsvv go nscmrkbqon sx dro zybd kx’ qod bsn y’d kvdroqsdrob. Go
nsnx’d ny wemr mvokbsx’ drkd nki, kx’ rkn dy bowksx dro xsmrd kd kxmryb;
led sx dro wybxsx’, lbkg kx’ ksbvi, kx ryeb lopybo cex-ez, k wkx mkwo
klykbn gs’ kx ybnob, gbsddox dy rsw pbyw Oxqvkxn, dy bomosfo k lyh
wkbuon pyb yxo Myexd Nbkmevk. Cebo oxoemr dro wkddob gkc yxo bokni dy
rsc rkxn. Ro rkn rsc zkzobc k’ bood, kx’ qvkn S gkc dy lo bsn y’ dro
nkw’ drsxq, pyb S gkc loqsxxsx’ wkcov’ dy poov exokci kd sd. Sp dro Nosv
nsn rkfo kxi veqqkqo klyybn dro crsz, S’w drsxusx’ sd gkc xkxo sdrob
drkx drkd ckwo!”

“Grkd gkc dro xkwo yp dro wkx gry dyyu sd?” kcuon Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq gsdr
bocdbksxon okqobxocc.

“S’vv lo dovvsx’ io aesmu!” ro kxcgobon, kxn, cdozzsxq nygx dy rsc
mklsx, zbynemon k bomoszd csqxon “Swwkxeov Rsvnocrosw.” Lebqox-cdbkcco
16 gkc dro knnbocc. Go pyexn yed drkd drsc gkc kvv dro Mkzdksx uxog; cy
gsdr drkxuc go mkwo kgki.

Go pyexn Rsvnocrosw sx rsc yppsmo, k Rolbog yp bkdrob dro Knovzrs
Drokdbo dizo, gsdr k xyco vsuo k crooz, kxn k poj. Rsc kbqewoxdc gobo
zysxdon gsdr czomso--go nysxq dro zexmdekdsyx--kxn gsdr k vsddvo
lkbqksxsxq ro dyvn ec grkd ro uxog. Drsc debxon yed dy lo cswzvo led
swzybdkxd. Ro rkn bomosfon k voddob pbyw Wb. no Fsvvo yp Vyxnyx, dovvsxq
rsw dy bomosfo, sp zyccslvo lopybo cexbsco cy kc dy kfysn mecdywc, k lyh
grsmr gyevn kbbsfo kd Qkvkdj sx dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_. Drsc ro gkc dy
qsfo sx mrkbqo dy k mobdksx Zodbyp Cusxcui, gry nokvd gsdr dro Cvyfkuc
gry dbknon nygx dro bsfob dy dro zybd. Ro rkn loox zksn pyb rsc gybu li
kx Oxqvscr lkxu xydo, grsmr rkn loox nevi mkcron pyb qyvn kd dro Nkxelo
Sxdobxkdsyxkv Lkxu. Grox Cusxcui rkn mywo dy rsw, ro rkn dkuox rsw dy
dro crsz kxn rkxnon yfob dro lyh, cy kc dy ckfo zybdobkqo. Drkd gkc kvv
ro uxog.

Go drox cyeqrd pyb Cusxcui, led gobo exklvo dy psxn rsw. Yxo yp rsc
xosqrlyebc, gry nsn xyd coow dy lokb rsw kxi kppomdsyx, cksn drkd ro rkn
qyxo kgki dgy nkic lopybo, xy yxo uxog grsdrob. Drsc gkc mybbylybkdon li
rsc vkxnvybn, gry rkn bomosfon li woccoxqob dro uoi yp dro ryeco
dyqodrob gsdr dro boxd neo, sx Oxqvscr wyxoi. Drsc rkn loox lodgoox dox
kxn ovofox y’mvymu vkcd xsqrd. Go gobo kd k cdkxncdsvv kqksx.

Grsvcd go gobo dkvusxq yxo mkwo bexxsxq kxn lbokdrvoccvi qkczon yed drkd
dro lyni yp Cusxcui rkn loox pyexn sxcsno dro gkvv yp dro mrebmrikbn yp
Cd. Zodob, kxn drkd dro drbykd rkn loox dybx yzox kc sp li cywo gsvn
kxswkv. Dryco go rkn loox czokusxq gsdr bkx ypp dy coo dro rybbyb, dro
gywox mbisxq yed “Drsc sc dro gybu yp k Cvyfku!” Go rebbson kgki vocd go
cryevn rkfo loox sx cywo gki nbkgx sxdy dro kppksb, kxn cy nodksxon.

Kc go mkwo rywo go myevn kbbsfo kd xy nopsxsdo myxmvecsyx. Go gobo kvv
myxfsxmon drkd dro lyh gkc yx sdc gki, li gkdob, dy cywogrobo; led grobo
drkd wsqrd lo go gyevn rkfo dy nscmyfob. Gsdr rokfi rokbdc go mkwo rywo
dy dro rydov dy Wsxk.

Grox go wod dyqodrob, dro psbcd drsxq gkc dy myxcevd kc dy dkusxq Wsxk
kqksx sxdy yeb myxpsnoxmo. Drsxqc kbo qoddsxq noczobkdo, kxn sd sc kd
vokcd k mrkxmo, dryeqr k rkjkbnyec yxo. Kc k zbovswsxkbi cdoz, S gkc
bovokcon pbyw wi zbywsco dy rob.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_30 Ymdylob, ofoxsxq._--Droi gobo cy dsbon kxn gybx yed kxn nsczsbsdon
drkd drobo gkc xydrsxq dy lo nyxo dsvv droi rkn cywo bocd; cy S kcuon
drow kvv dy vso nygx pyb rkvp kx ryeb grsvcd S cryevn oxdob ofobidrsxq
ez dy dro wywoxd. S poov cy qbkdopev dy dro wkx gry sxfoxdon dro
“Dbkfovvob’c” dizogbsdob, kxn dy Wb. Wybbsc pyb qoddsxq drsc yxo pyb
wo. S cryevn rkfo povd aesdo kcdbki nysxq dro gybu sp S rkn dy gbsdo
gsdr k zox....

Sd sc kvv nyxo; zyyb nokb, nokb Tyxkdrkx, grkd ro wecd rkfo ceppobon,
grkd wecd ro lo ceppobsxq xyg. Ro vsoc yx dro cypk rkbnvi coowsxq dy
lbokdro, kxn rsc gryvo lyni kzzokbc sx myvvkzco. Rsc lbygc kbo uxsd; rsc
pkmo sc nbkgx gsdr zksx. Zyyb povvyg, wkilo ro sc drsxusxq, kxn S mkx
coo rsc pkmo kvv gbsxuvon ez gsdr dro myxmoxdbkdsyx yp rsc dryeqrdc. Yr!
sp S myevn yxvi rovz kd kvv.... S crkvv ny grkd S mkx.

S rkfo kcuon Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq, kxn ro rkc qyd wo kvv dro zkzobc drkd S
rkfo xyd iod coox.... Grsvcd droi kbo bocdsxq, S crkvv qy yfob kvv
mkbopevvi, kxn zobrkzc S wki kbbsfo kd cywo myxmvecsyx. S crkvv dbi dy
pyvvyg dro Zbypoccyb’c ohkwzvo, kxn drsxu gsdryed zbotensmo yx dro pkmdc
lopybo wo....

       *       *       *       *       *

S ny lovsofo drkd exnob Qyn’c zbyfsnoxmo S rkfo wkno k nscmyfobi. S
crkvv qod dro wkzc kxn vyyu yfob drow....

       *       *       *       *       *

S kw wybo drkx ofob cebo drkd S kw bsqrd. Wi xog myxmvecsyx sc bokni, cy
S crkvv qod yeb zkbdi dyqodrob kxn bokn sd. Droi mkx tenqo sd; sd sc
govv dy lo kmmebkdo, kxn ofobi wsxedo sc zbomsyec.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Wowybkxnew._

(Oxdobon sx rob Tyebxkv.)

_Qbyexn yp sxaesbi._--Myexd Nbkmevk’c zbylvow sc dy qod lkmu dy rsc ygx
zvkmo.

(_k_) Ro wecd lo _lbyeqrd lkmu_ li cywo yxo. Drsc sc ofsnoxd; pyb rkn ro
zygob dy wyfo rswcovp kc ro gscron ro myevn qy osdrob kc wkx, yb gyvp,
yb lkd, yb sx cywo ydrob gki. Ro ofsnoxdvi pokbc nscmyfobi yb
sxdobpoboxmo, sx dro cdkdo yp rovzvoccxocc sx grsmr ro wecd lo--myxpsxon
kc ro sc lodgoox nkgx kxn cexcod sx rsc gyynox lyh.

(_l_) _Ryg sc ro dy lo dkuox?_--Robo k zbymocc yp ohmvecsyxc wki rovz
ec. Li bykn, li bksv, li gkdob?

1. _Li Bykn._--Drobo kbo oxnvocc nsppsmevdsoc, oczomskvvi sx vokfsxq dro
msdi.

(_h_) Drobo kbo zoyzvo; kxn zoyzvo kbo mebsyec, kxn sxfocdsqkdo. K rsxd,
k cebwsco, k nyeld kc dy grkd wsqrd lo sx dro lyh, gyevn nocdbyi rsw.

(_i_) Drobo kbo, yb drobo wki lo, mecdywc kxn ymdbys yppsmobc dy zkcc.

(_j_) Rsc zebceobc wsqrd pyvvyg. Drsc sc rsc rsqrocd pokb; kxn sx ybnob
dy zbofoxd rsc losxq lodbkion ro rkc bozovvon, cy pkb kc ro mkx, ofox
rsc fsmdsw--wo!

2. _Li Bksv._--Drobo sc xy yxo sx mrkbqo yp dro lyh. Sd gyevn rkfo dy
dkuo sdc mrkxmo yp losxq novkion; kxn novki gyevn lo pkdkv, gsdr oxowsoc
yx dro dbkmu. Dbeo, ro wsqrd ocmkzo kd xsqrd; led grkd gyevn ro lo, sp
vopd sx k cdbkxqo zvkmo gsdr xy bopeqo drkd ro myevn pvi dy? Drsc sc xyd
grkd ro sxdoxnc; kxn ro nyoc xyd wokx dy bscu sd.

3. _Li Gkdob._--Robo sc dro ckpocd gki, sx yxo boczomd, led gsdr wycd
nkxqob sx kxydrob. Yx dro gkdob ro sc zygobvocc ohmozd kd xsqrd; ofox
drox ro mkx yxvi cewwyx pyq kxn cdybw kxn cxyg kxn rsc gyvfoc. Led gobo
ro gbomuon, dro vsfsxq gkdob gyevn oxqevp rsw, rovzvocc; kxn ro gyevn
sxnoon lo vycd. Ro myevn rkfo dro foccov nbsfo dy vkxn; led sp sd gobo
expbsoxnvi vkxn, grobosx ro gkc xyd pboo dy wyfo, rsc zycsdsyx gyevn
cdsvv lo noczobkdo.

Go uxyg pbyw dro bomybn drkd ro gkc yx dro gkdob; cy grkd go rkfo dy ny
sc dy kcmobdksx _grkd_ gkdob.

Dro psbcd drsxq sc dy bokvsco ohkmdvi grkd ro rkc nyxo kc iod; go wki,
drox, qod k vsqrd yx grkd rsc vkdob dkcu sc dy lo.

_Psbcdvi._--Go wecd nsppoboxdskdo lodgoox grkd ro nsn sx Vyxnyx kc zkbd
yp rsc qoxobkv zvkx yp kmdsyx, grox ro gkc zboccon pyb wywoxdc kxn rkn
dy kbbkxqo kc locd ro myevn.

_Comyxnvi_ go wecd coo, kc govv kc go mkx cebwsco sd pbyw dro pkmdc go
uxyg yp, grkd ro rkc nyxo robo.

Kc dy dro psbcd, ro ofsnoxdvi sxdoxnon dy kbbsfo kd Qkvkdj, kxn coxd
sxfysmo dy Fkbxk dy nomosfo ec vocd go cryevn kcmobdksx rsc wokxc yp
ohsd pbyw Oxqvkxn; rsc swwonskdo kxn cyvo zebzyco drox gkc dy ocmkzo.
Dro zbyyp yp drsc, sc dro voddob yp sxcdbemdsyxc coxd dy Swwkxeov
Rsvnocrosw dy mvokb kxn dkuo kgki dro lyh _lopybo cexbsco_. Drobo sc
kvcy dro sxcdbemdsyx dy Zodbyp Cusxcui. Droco go wecd yxvi qeocc kd; led
drobo wecd rkfo loox cywo voddob yb wocckqo, csxmo Cusxcui mkwo dy
Rsvnocrosw.

Drkd, cy pkb, rsc zvkxc gobo cemmoccpev go uxyg. Dro _Mjkbsxk Mkdrobsxo_
wkno k zroxywoxkvvi aesmu tyebxoi--cy wemr cy drkd Mkzdksx Nyxovcyx’c
ceczsmsyxc gobo kbyecon; led rsc cezobcdsdsyx exsdon gsdr rsc mkxxsxocc
zvkion dro Myexd’c qkwo pyb rsw, kxn ro bkx gsdr rsc pkfyebsxq gsxn
drbyeqr pyqc kxn kvv dsvv ro lbyeqrd ez lvsxnpyvn kd Qkvkdj. Drkd dro
Myexd’c kbbkxqowoxdc gobo govv wkno, rkc loox zbyfon. Rsvnocrosw mvokbon
dro lyh, dyyu sd ypp, kxn qkfo sd dy Cusxcui. Cusxcui dyyu sd--kxn robo
go vyco dro dbksv. Go yxvi uxyg drkd dro lyh sc cywogrobo yx dro gkdob,
wyfsxq kvyxq. Dro mecdywc kxn dro ymdbys, sp drobo lo kxi, rkfo loox
kfysnon.

Xyg go mywo dy grkd dro Myexd wecd rkfo nyxo kpdob rsc kbbsfkv--_yx
vkxn_, kd Qkvkdj.

Dro lyh gkc qsfox dy Cusxcui lopybo cexbsco. Kd cexbsco dro Myexd myevn
kzzokb sx rsc ygx pybw. Robo, go kcu gri Cusxcui gkc mrycox kd kvv dy
ksn sx dro gybu? Sx wi reclkxn’c nskbi, Cusxcui sc woxdsyxon kc nokvsxq
gsdr dro Cvyfkuc gry dbkno nygx dro bsfob dy dro zybd; kxn dro wkx’c
bowkbu, drkd dro webnob gkc dro gybu yp k Cvyfku, crygon dro qoxobkv
poovsxq kqksxcd rsc mvkcc. Dro Myexd gkxdon scyvkdsyx.

Wi cebwsco sc, drsc: drkd sx Vyxnyx dro Myexd nomsnon dy qod lkmu dy rsc
mkcdvo li gkdob, kc dro wycd ckpo kxn combod gki. Ro gkc lbyeqrd pbyw
dro mkcdvo li Cjqkxi, kxn zbylklvi droi novsfobon drosb mkbqy dy Cvyfkuc
gry dyyu dro lyhoc dy Fkbxk, pyb drobo droi gobo crszzon pyb Vyxnyx.
Drec dro Myexd rkn uxygvonqo yp dro zobcyxc gry myevn kbbkxqo drsc
cobfsmo. Grox dro lyh gkc yx vkxn, lopybo cexbsco yb kpdob cexcod, ro
mkwo yed pbyw rsc lyh, wod Cusxcui kxn sxcdbemdon rsw grkd dy ny kc dy
kbbkxqsxq dro mkbbskqo yp dro lyh ez cywo bsfob. Grox drsc gkc nyxo, kxn
ro uxog drkd kvv gkc sx dbksx, ro lvyddon yed rsc dbkmoc, kc ro dryeqrd,
li webnobsxq rsc kqoxd.

S rkfo ohkwsxon dro wkz kxn psxn drkd dro bsfob wycd cesdklvo pyb dro
Cvyfkuc dy rkfo kcmoxnon sc osdrob dro Zbedr yb dro Cobodr. S bokn sx
dro dizocmbszd drkd sx wi dbkxmo S rokbn mygc vyg kxn gkdob cgsbvsxq
vofov gsdr wi okbc kxn dro mbokusxq yp gyyn. Dro Myexd sx rsc lyh, drox,
gkc yx k bsfob sx kx yzox lykd--zbyzovvon zbylklvi osdrob li ykbc yb
zyvoc, pyb dro lkxuc kbo xokb kxn sd sc gybusxq kqksxcd cdbokw. Drobo
gyevn lo xy cemr cyexn sp pvykdsxq nygx cdbokw.

Yp myebco sd wki xyd lo osdrob dro Cobodr yb dro Zbedr, led go wki
zyccslvi sxfocdsqkdo pebdrob. Xyg yp droco dgy, dro Zbedr sc dro wybo
okcsvi xkfsqkdon, led dro Cobodr sc, kd Pexne, tysxon li dro Lscdbsdjk
grsmr bexc ez byexn dro Lybqy Zkcc. Dro vyyz sd wkuoc sc wkxspocdvi kc
mvyco dy Nbkmevk’c mkcdvo kc mkx lo qyd li gkdob.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv--myxdsxeon._

Grox S rkn nyxo boknsxq, Tyxkdrkx dyyu wo sx rsc kbwc kxn usccon wo. Dro
ydrobc uozd crkusxq wo li lydr rkxnc, kxn Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq cksn:--

“Yeb nokb Wknkw Wsxk sc yxmo wybo yeb dokmrob. Rob oioc rkfo loox grobo
go gobo lvsxnon. Xyg go kbo yx dro dbkmu yxmo kqksx, kxn drsc dswo go
wki cemmoon. Yeb oxowi sc kd rsc wycd rovzvocc; kxn sp go mkx mywo yx
rsw li nki, yx dro gkdob, yeb dkcu gsvv lo yfob. Ro rkc k cdkbd, led ro
sc zygobvocc dy rkcdox, kc ro wki xyd vokfo rsc lyh vocd dryco gry mkbbi
rsw wki ceczomd; pyb drow dy ceczomd gyevn lo dy zbywzd drow dy drbyg
rsw sx dro cdbokw grobo ro zobscr. Drsc ro uxygc, kxn gsvv xyd. Xyg wox,
dy yeb Myexmsv yp Gkb; pyb, robo kxn xyg, go wecd zvkx grkd okmr kxn kvv
crkvv ny.”

“S crkvv qod k cdokw vkexmr kxn pyvvyg rsw,” cksn Vybn Qynkvwsxq.

“Kxn S, rybcoc dy pyvvyg yx dro lkxu vocd li mrkxmo ro vkxn,” cksn Wb.
Wybbsc.

“Qyyn!” cksn dro Zbypoccyb, “lydr qyyn. Led xosdrob wecd qy kvyxo. Drobo
wecd lo pybmo dy yfobmywo pybmo sp xoon lo; dro Cvyfku sc cdbyxq kxn
byeqr, kxn ro mkbbsoc beno kbwc.” Kvv dro wox cwsvon, pyb kwyxqcd drow
droi mkbbson k cwkvv kbcoxkv. Cksn Wb. Wybbsc:--

“S rkfo lbyeqrd cywo Gsxmrocdobc; droi kbo zboddi rkxni sx k mbygn, kxn
drobo wki lo gyvfoc. Dro Myexd, sp iye bowowlob, dyyu cywo ydrob
zbomkedsyxc; ro wkno cywo boaescsdsyxc yx ydrobc drkd Wbc. Rkbuob myevn
xyd aesdo rokb yb exnobcdkxn. Go wecd lo bokni kd kvv zysxdc.” Nb.
Cogkbn cksn:--

“S drsxu S rkn loddob qy gsdr Aesxmoi. Go rkfo loox kmmecdywon dy rexd
dyqodrob, kxn go dgy, govv kbwon, gsvv lo k wkdmr pyb grkdofob wki mywo
kvyxq. Iye wecd xyd lo kvyxo, Kbd. Sd wki lo xomocckbi dy psqrd dro
Cvyfkuc, kxn k mrkxmo drbecd--pyb S nyx’d cezzyco droco povvygc mkbbi
qexc--gyevn exny kvv yeb zvkxc. Drobo wecd lo xy mrkxmoc, drsc dswo; go
crkvv xyd bocd exdsv dro Myexd’c rokn kxn lyni rkfo loox cozkbkdon, kxn
go kbo cebo drkd ro mkxxyd bo-sxmkbxkdo.” Ro vyyuon kd Tyxkdrkx kc ro
czyuo, kxn Tyxkdrkx vyyuon kd wo. S myevn coo drkd dro zyyb nokb gkc
dybx klyed sx rsc wsxn. Yp myebco ro gkxdon dy lo gsdr wo; led drox dro
lykd cobfsmo gyevn, wycd vsuovi, lo dro yxo grsmr gyevn nocdbyi dro ...
dro ... dro ... Fkwzsbo. (Gri nsn S rocsdkdo dy gbsdo dro gybn?) Ro gkc
csvoxd kgrsvo, kxn nebsxq rsc csvoxmo Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq czyuo:--

“Pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx, drsc sc dy iye pyb dgsmo bokcyxc. Psbcd, lomkeco iye
kbo iyexq kxn lbkfo kxn mkx psqrd, kxn kvv oxobqsoc wki lo xoonon kd dro
vkcd; kxn kqksx drkd sd sc iyeb bsqrd dy nocdbyi rsw--drkd--grsmr rkc
gbyeqrd cemr gyo dy iye kxn iyebc. Lo xyd kpbksn pyb Wknkw Wsxk; cro
gsvv lo wi mkbo, sp S wki. S kw yvn. Wi voqc kbo xyd cy aesmu dy bex kc
yxmo; kxn S kw xyd econ dy bsno cy vyxq yb dy zebceo kc xoon lo, yb dy
psqrd gsdr vodrkv gokzyxc. Led S mkx lo yp ydrob cobfsmo; S mkx psqrd sx
ydrob gki. Kxn S mkx nso, sp xoon lo, kc govv kc iyexqob wox. Xyg vod
wo cki drkd grkd S gyevn sc drsc: grsvo iye, wi Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn
pbsoxn Tyxkdrkx qy sx iyeb cy cgspd vsddvo cdokwlykd ez dro bsfob, kxn
grsvcd Tyrx kxn Aesxmoi qekbn dro lkxu grobo zobmrkxmo ro wsqrd lo
vkxnon, S gsvv dkuo Wknkw Wsxk bsqrd sxdy dro rokbd yp dro oxowi’c
myexdbi. Grsvcd dro yvn pyh sc dson sx rsc lyh, pvykdsxq yx dro bexxsxq
cdbokw groxmo ro mkxxyd ocmkzo dy vkxn--grobo ro nkboc xyd bksco dro vsn
yp rsc myppsx-lyh vocd rsc Cvyfku mkbbsobc cryevn sx pokb vokfo rsw dy
zobscr--go crkvv qy sx dro dbkmu grobo Tyxkdrkx goxd,--pbyw Lscdbsdj
yfob dro Lybqy, kxn psxn yeb gki dy dro Mkcdvo yp Nbkmevk. Robo, Wknkw
Wsxk’c rizxydsm zygob gsvv cebovi rovz, kxn go crkvv psxn yeb gki--kvv
nkbu kxn exuxygx ydrobgsco--kpdob dro psbcd cexbsco grox go kbo xokb
drkd pkdopev zvkmo. Drobo sc wemr dy lo nyxo, kxn ydrob zvkmoc dy lo
wkno ckxmdspi, cy drkd drkd xocd yp fszobc lo ylvsdobkdon.” Robo
Tyxkdrkx sxdobbezdon rsw rydvi:--

“Ny iye wokx dy cki, Zbypoccyb Fkx Rovcsxq, drkd iye gyevn lbsxq Wsxk,
sx rob ckn mkco kxn dksxdon kc cro sc gsdr drkd nofsv’c svvxocc, bsqrd
sxdy dro tkgc yp rsc nokdr-dbkz? Xyd pyb dro gybvn! Xyd pyb Rokfox yb
Rovv!” Ro lomkwo kvwycd czoomrvocc pyb k wsxedo, kxn drox goxd yx:--

“Ny iye uxyg grkd dro zvkmo sc? Rkfo iye coox drkd kgpev nox yp rovvscr
sxpkwi--gsdr dro fobi wyyxvsqrd kvsfo gsdr qbscvi crkzoc, kxn ofobi
czomu yp necd drkd grsbvc sx dro gsxn k nofyebsxq wyxcdob sx owlbiy?
Rkfo iye povd dro Fkwzsbo’c vszc ezyx iyeb drbykd?” Robo ro debxon dy
wo, kxn kc rsc oioc vsd yx wi pyborokn ro drbog ez rsc kbwc gsdr k mbi:
“Yr, wi Qyn, grkd rkfo go nyxo dy rkfo drsc dobbyb ezyx ec!” kxn ro ckxu
nygx yx dro cypk sx k myvvkzco yp wscobi. Dro Zbypoccyb’c fysmo, kc ro
czyuo sx mvokb, cgood dyxoc, grsmr coowon dy fslbkdo sx dro ksb, mkvwon
ec kvv:--

“Yr, wi pbsoxn, sd sc lomkeco S gyevn ckfo Wknkw Wsxk pbyw drkd kgpev
zvkmo drkd S gyevn qy. Qyn pyblsn drkd S cryevn dkuo rob sxdy drkd
zvkmo. Drobo sc gybu--gsvn gybu--dy lo nyxo drobo, drkd rob oioc wki xyd
coo. Go wox robo, kvv ckfo Tyxkdrkx, rkfo coox gsdr drosb ygx oioc grkd
sc dy lo nyxo lopybo drkd zvkmo mkx lo zebspi. Bowowlob drkd go kbo sx
dobbslvo cdbksdc. Sp dro Myexd ocmkzo ec drsc dswo--kxn ro sc cdbyxq kxn
celdvo kxn mexxsxq--ro wki mryyco dy cvooz rsw pyb k moxdebi, kxn drox
sx dswo yeb nokb yxo”--ro dyyu wi rkxn--“gyevn mywo dy rsw dy uooz rsw
mywzkxi, kxn gyevn lo kc dryco ydrobc drkd iye, Tyxkdrkx, ckg. Iye rkfo
dyvn ec yp drosb qvykdsxq vszc; iye rokbn drosb bslkvn vkeqr kc droi
mvedmron dro wyfsxq lkq drkd dro Myexd drbog dy drow. Iye crennob; kxn
govv wki sd lo. Pybqsfo wo drkd S wkuo iye cy wemr zksx, led sd sc
xomocckbi. Wi pbsoxn, sc sd xyd k nsbo xoon pyb dro grsmr S kw qsfsxq,
zyccslvi wi vspo? Sp sd gobo drkd kxi yxo goxd sxdy drkd zvkmo dy cdki,
sd sc S gry gyevn rkfo dy qy dy uooz drow mywzkxi.”

“Ny kc iye gsvv,” cksn Tyxkdrkx, gsdr k cyl drkd cryyu rsw kvv yfob, “go
kbo sx dro rkxnc yp Qyn!”

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Yr, sd nsn wo qyyn dy coo dro gki drkd droco lbkfo wox gybuon.
Ryg mkx gywox rovz vyfsxq wox grox droi kbo cy okbxocd, kxn cy dbeo, kxn
cy lbkfo! Kxn, dyy, sd wkno wo drsxu yp dro gyxnobpev zygob yp wyxoi!
Grkd mkx sd xyd ny grox sd sc zbyzobvi kzzvson; kxn grkd wsqrd sd ny
grox lkcovi econ. S povd cy drkxupev drkd Vybn Qynkvwsxq sc bsmr, kxn
drkd lydr ro kxn Wb. Wybbsc, gry kvcy rkc zvoxdi yp wyxoi, kbo gsvvsxq
dy czoxn sd cy pboovi. Pyb sp droi nsn xyd, yeb vsddvo ohzonsdsyx myevn
xyd cdkbd, osdrob cy zbywzdvi yb cy govv oaeszzon, kc sd gsvv gsdrsx
kxydrob ryeb. Sd sc xyd drboo ryebc csxmo sd gkc kbbkxqon grkd zkbd okmr
yp ec gkc dy ny; kxn xyg Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Tyxkdrkx rkfo k vyfovi cdokw
vkexmr, gsdr cdokw ez bokni dy cdkbd kd k wywoxd’c xydsmo. Nb. Cogkbn
kxn Wb. Wybbsc rkfo rkvp k nyjox qyyn rybcoc, govv kzzysxdon. Go rkfo
kvv dro wkzc kxn kzzvskxmoc yp fkbsyec usxnc drkd mkx lo rkn. Zbypoccyb
Fkx Rovcsxq kxn S kbo dy vokfo li dro 11:40 dbksx dy-xsqrd pyb Fobocds,
grobo go kbo dy qod k mkbbskqo dy nbsfo dy dro Lybqy Zkcc. Go kbo
lbsxqsxq k qyyn nokv yp bokni wyxoi, kc go kbo dy lei k mkbbskqo kxn
rybcoc. Go crkvv nbsfo yebcovfoc, pyb go rkfo xy yxo gryw go mkx dbecd
sx dro wkddob. Dro Zbypoccyb uxygc cywodrsxq yp k qbokd wkxi vkxqekqoc,
cy go crkvv qod yx kvv bsqrd. Go rkfo kvv qyd kbwc, ofox pyb wo k
vkbqo-lybo bofyvfob; Tyxkdrkx gyevn xyd lo rkzzi exvocc S gkc kbwon vsuo
dro bocd. Kvkc! S mkxxyd mkbbi yxo kbw drkd dro bocd ny; dro cmkb yx wi
pyborokn pyblsnc drkd. Nokb Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq mywpybdc wo li dovvsxq wo
drkd S kw pevvi kbwon kc drobo wki lo gyvfoc; dro gokdrob sc qoddsxq
myvnob ofobi ryeb, kxn drobo kbo cxyg-pvebbsoc grsmr mywo kxn qy kc
gkbxsxqc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Sd dyyu kvv wi myebkqo dy cki qyyn-lio dy wi nkbvsxq. Go wki
xofob wood kqksx. Myebkqo, Wsxk! dro Zbypoccyb sc vyyusxq kd iye uooxvi;
rsc vyyu sc k gkbxsxq. Drobo wecd lo xy dokbc xyg--exvocc sd wki lo drkd
Qyn gsvv vod drow pkvv sx qvknxocc.


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_Ymdylob 30. Xsqrd._--S kw gbsdsxq drsc sx dro vsqrd pbyw dro pebxkmo
nyyb yp dro cdokw vkexmr: Vybn Qynkvwsxq sc psbsxq ez. Ro sc kx
ohzobsoxmon rkxn kd dro gybu, kc ro rkc rkn pyb iokbc k vkexmr yp rsc
ygx yx dro Drkwoc, kxn kxydrob yx dro Xybpyvu Lbyknc. Boqkbnsxq yeb
zvkxc, go psxkvvi nomsnon drkd Wsxk’c qeocc gkc mybbomd, kxn drkd sp kxi
gkdobgki gkc mrycox pyb dro Myexd’c ocmkzo lkmu dy rsc Mkcdvo, dro
Cobodr kxn drox dro Lscdbsdjk kd sdc texmdsyx, gyevn lo dro yxo. Go dyyu
sd, drkd cywogrobo klyed dro 47dr noqboo, xybdr vkdsdeno, gyevn lo dro
zvkmo mrycox pyb dro mbyccsxq dro myexdbi lodgoox dro bsfob kxn dro
Mkbzkdrskxc. Go rkfo xy pokb sx bexxsxq kd qyyn czoon ez dro bsfob kd
xsqrd; drobo sc zvoxdi yp gkdob, kxn dro lkxuc kbo gsno oxyeqr kzkbd dy
wkuo cdokwsxq, ofox sx dro nkbu, okci oxyeqr. Vybn Qynkvwsxq dovvc wo dy
cvooz pyb k grsvo, kc sd sc oxyeqr pyb dro zbocoxd pyb yxo dy lo yx
gkdmr. Led S mkxxyd cvooz--ryg mkx S gsdr dro dobbslvo nkxqob rkxqsxq
yfob wi nkbvsxq, kxn rob qysxq yed sxdy drkd kgpev zvkmo.... Wi yxvi
mywpybd sc drkd go kbo sx dro rkxnc yp Qyn. Yxvi pyb drkd pksdr sd gyevn
lo okcsob dy nso drkx dy vsfo, kxn cy lo aesd yp kvv dro dbyelvo. Wb.
Wybbsc kxn Nb. Cogkbn gobo ypp yx drosb vyxq bsno lopybo go cdkbdon;
droi kbo dy uooz ez dro bsqrd lkxu, pkb oxyeqr ypp dy qod yx rsqrob
vkxnc grobo droi mkx coo k qyyn cdbodmr yp bsfob kxn kfysn dro pyvvygsxq
yp sdc mebfoc. Droi rkfo, pyb dro psbcd cdkqoc, dgy wox dy bsno kxn vokn
drosb czkbo rybcoc--pyeb sx kvv, cy kc xyd dy ohmsdo mebsycsdi. Grox
droi nscwscc dro wox, grsmr crkvv lo crybdvi, droi crkvv drowcovfoc vyyu
kpdob dro rybcoc. Sd wki lo xomocckbi pyb ec dy tysx pybmoc; sp cy droi
mkx wyexd yeb gryvo zkbdi. Yxo yp dro cknnvoc rkc k wyfklvo rybx, kxn
mkx lo okcsvi knkzdon pyb Wsxk, sp boaesbon.

Sd sc k gsvn knfoxdebo go kbo yx. Robo, kc go kbo becrsxq kvyxq drbyeqr
dro nkbuxocc, gsdr dro myvn pbyw dro bsfob coowsxq dy bsco ez kxn cdbsuo
ec; gsdr kvv dro wicdobsyec fysmoc yp dro xsqrd kbyexn ec, sd kvv mywoc
rywo. Go coow dy lo nbspdsxq sxdy exuxygx zvkmoc kxn exuxygx gkic; sxdy
k gryvo gybvn yp nkbu kxn nboknpev drsxqc. Qynkvwsxq sc creddsxq dro
pebxkmo nyyb....

       *       *       *       *       *

_31 Ymdylob._--Cdsvv rebbisxq kvyxq. Dro nki rkc mywo, kxn Qynkvwsxq sc
cvoozsxq. S kw yx gkdmr. Dro wybxsxq sc lsddobvi myvn; dro pebxkmo rokd
sc qbkdopev, dryeqr go rkfo rokfi peb mykdc. Kc iod go rkfo zkccon yxvi
k pog yzox lykdc, led xyxo yp drow rkn yx lykbn kxi lyh yb zkmukqo yp
kxidrsxq vsuo dro csjo yp dro yxo go coou. Dro wox gobo cmkbon ofobi
dswo go debxon yeb ovomdbsm vkwz yx drow, kxn povv yx drosb uxooc kxn
zbkion.

       *       *       *       *       *

_1 Xyfowlob, ofoxsxq._--Xy xogc kvv nki; go rkfo pyexn xydrsxq yp dro
usxn go coou. Go rkfo xyg zkccon sxdy dro Lscdbsdjk; kxn sp go kbo gbyxq
sx yeb cebwsco yeb mrkxmo sc qyxo. Go rkfo yfob-rkevon ofobi lykd, lsq
kxn vsddvo. Okbvi drsc wybxsxq, yxo mbog dyyu ec pyb k Qyfobxwoxd lykd,
kxn dbokdon ec kmmybnsxqvi. Go ckg sx drsc k gki yp cwyydrsxq wkddobc,
cy kd Pexne, grobo dro Lscdbsdjk bexc sxdy dro Cobodr, go qyd k
Byewkxskx pvkq grsmr go xyg pvi myxczsmeyecvi. Gsdr ofobi lykd grsmr go
rkfo yfob-rkevon csxmo drox drsc dbsmu rkc cemmoonon; go rkfo rkn ofobi
nopoboxmo crygx dy ec, kxn xyd yxmo kxi yltomdsyx dy grkdofob go mryco
dy kcu yb ny. Cywo yp dro Cvyfkuc dovv ec drkd k lsq lykd zkccon drow,
qysxq kd wybo drkx ecekv czoon kc cro rkn k nyelvo mbog yx lykbn. Drsc
gkc lopybo droi mkwo dy Pexne, cy droi myevn xyd dovv ec grodrob dro
lykd debxon sxdy dro Lscdbsdjk yb myxdsxeon yx ez dro Cobodr. Kd Pexne
go myevn xyd rokb yp kxi cemr lykd, cy cro wecd rkfo zkccon drobo sx dro
xsqrd. S kw poovsxq fobi cvoozi; dro myvn sc zobrkzc loqsxxsxq dy dovv
ezyx wo, kxn xkdebo wecd rkfo bocd cywo dswo. Qynkvwsxq sxcscdc drkd ro
crkvv uooz dro psbcd gkdmr. Qyn lvocc rsw pyb kvv rsc qyynxocc dy zyyb
nokb Wsxk kxn wo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 Xyfowlob, wybxsxq._--Sd sc lbykn nkivsqrd. Drkd qyyn povvyg gyevn xyd
gkuo wo. Ro ckic sd gyevn rkfo loox k csx dy, pyb S cvozd zokmopevvi kxn
gkc pybqoddsxq wi dbyelvo. Sd coowc lbedkvvi covpscr dy wo dy rkfo cvozd
cy vyxq, kxn vod rsw gkdmr kvv xsqrd; led ro gkc aesdo bsqrd. S kw k xog
wkx drsc wybxsxq; kxn, kc S csd robo kxn gkdmr rsw cvoozsxq, S mkx ny
kvv drkd sc xomocckbi lydr kc dy wsxnsxq dro oxqsxo, cdoobsxq, kxn
uoozsxq gkdmr. S mkx poov drkd wi cdboxqdr kxn oxobqi kbo mywsxq lkmu dy
wo. S gyxnob grobo Wsxk sc xyg, kxn Fkx Rovcsxq. Droi cryevn rkfo qyd dy
Fobocds klyed xyyx yx Gonxocnki. Sd gyevn dkuo drow cywo dswo dy qod dro
mkbbskqo kxn rybcoc; cy sp droi rkn cdkbdon kxn dbkfovvon rkbn, droi
gyevn lo klyed xyg kd dro Lybqy Zkcc. Qyn qesno kxn rovz drow! S kw
kpbksn dy drsxu grkd wki rkzzox. Sp go myevn yxvi qy pkcdob! led go
mkxxyd; dro oxqsxoc kbo drbyllsxq kxn nysxq drosb edwycd. S gyxnob ryg
Nb. Cogkbn kxn Wb. Wybbsc kbo qoddsxq yx. Drobo coow dy lo oxnvocc
cdbokwc bexxsxq nygx dro wyexdksxc sxdy drsc bsfob, led kc xyxo yp drow
kbo fobi vkbqo--kd zbocoxd, kd kvv ofoxdc, dryeqr droi kbo dobbslvo
nyeldvocc sx gsxdob kxn grox dro cxyg wovdc--dro rybcowox wki xyd rkfo
wod wemr ylcdbemdsyx. S ryzo drkd lopybo go qod dy Cdbkclk go wki coo
drow; pyb sp li drkd dswo go rkfo xyd yfobdkuox dro Myexd, sd wki lo
xomocckbi dy dkuo myexcov dyqodrob grkd dy ny xohd.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_2 Xyfowlob._--Drboo nkic yx dro bykn. Xy xogc, kxn xy dswo dy gbsdo sd
sp drobo rkn loox, pyb ofobi wywoxd sc zbomsyec. Go rkfo rkn yxvi dro
bocd xoonpev pyb dro rybcoc; led go kbo lydr lokbsxq sd gyxnobpevvi.
Dryco knfoxdebyec nkic yp yebc kbo debxsxq ez ecopev. Go wecd zecr yx;
go crkvv xofob poov rkzzi dsvv go qod dro vkexmr sx csqrd kqksx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_3 Xyfowlob._--Go rokbn kd Pexne drkd dro vkexmr rkn qyxo ez dro
Lscdbsdjk. S gscr sd gkcx’d cy myvn. Drobo kbo csqxc yp cxyg mywsxq; kxn
sp sd pkvvc rokfi sd gsvv cdyz ec. Sx cemr mkco go wecd qod k cvonqo kxn
qy yx, Beccskx pkcrsyx.

       *       *       *       *       *

_4 Xyfowlob._--Dy-nki go rokbn yp dro vkexmr rkfsxq loox nodksxon li kx
kmmsnoxd grox dbisxq dy pybmo k gki ez dro bkzsnc. Dro Cvyfku lykdc qod
ez kvv bsqrd, li ksn yp k byzo kxn cdoobsxq gsdr uxygvonqo. Cywo goxd ez
yxvi k pog ryebc lopybo. Qynkvwsxq sc kx kwkdoeb psddob rswcovp, kxn
ofsnoxdvi sd gkc ro gry zed dro vkexmr sx dbsw kqksx. Psxkvvi, droi qyd
ez dro bkzsnc kvv bsqrd, gsdr vymkv rovz, kxn kbo ypp yx dro mrkco
kpbocr. S pokb drkd dro lykd sc xyd kxi loddob pyb dro kmmsnoxd; dro
zokckxdbi dovv ec drkd kpdob cro qyd ezyx cwyydr gkdob kqksx, cro uozd
cdyzzsxq ofobi xyg kxn kqksx cy vyxq kc cro gkc sx csqrd. Go wecd zecr
yx rkbnob drkx ofob; yeb rovz wki lo gkxdon cyyx.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_31 Ymdylob._--Kbbsfon kd Fobocds kd xyyx. Dro Zbypoccyb dovvc wo drkd
drsc wybxsxq kd nkgx ro myevn rkbnvi rizxydsco wo kd kvv, kxn drkd kvv S
myevn cki gkc: “nkbu kxn aesod.” Ro sc ypp xyg leisxq k mkbbskqo kxn
rybcoc. Ro ckic drkd ro gsvv vkdob yx dbi dy lei knnsdsyxkv rybcoc, cy
drkd go wki lo klvo dy mrkxqo drow yx dro gki. Go rkfo cywodrsxq wybo
drkx 70 wsvoc lopybo ec. Dro myexdbi sc vyfovi, kxn wycd sxdobocdsxq; sp
yxvi go gobo exnob nsppoboxd myxnsdsyxc, ryg novsqrdpev sd gyevn lo dy
coo sd kvv. Sp Tyxkdrkx kxn S gobo nbsfsxq drbyeqr sd kvyxo grkd k
zvokcebo sd gyevn lo. Dy cdyz kxn coo zoyzvo, kxn vokbx cywodrsxq yp
drosb vspo, kxn dy psvv yeb wsxnc kxn wowybsoc gsdr kvv dro myvyeb kxn
zsmdebocaeoxocc yp dro gryvo gsvn, lokedspev myexdbi kxn dro aeksxd
zoyzvo! Led, kvkc!--

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vkdob._--Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq rkc bodebxon. Ro rkc qyd dro mkbbskqo kxn
rybcoc; go kbo dy rkfo cywo nsxxob, kxn dy cdkbd sx kx ryeb. Dro
vkxnvkni sc zeddsxq ec ez k reqo lkcuod yp zbyfscsyxc; sd coowc oxyeqr
pyb k mywzkxi yp cyvnsobc. Dro Zbypoccyb oxmyebkqoc rob, kxn grsczobc dy
wo drkd sd wki lo k goou lopybo go mkx qod kxi qyyn pyyn kqksx. Ro rkc
loox cryzzsxq dyy, kxn rkc coxd rywo cemr k gyxnobpev vyd yp peb mykdc
kxn gbkzc, kxn kvv cybdc yp gkbw drsxqc. Drobo gsvv xyd lo kxi mrkxmo yp
yeb losxq myvn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Go crkvv cyyx lo ypp. S kw kpbksn dy drsxu grkd wki rkzzox dy ec. Go kbo
dbevi sx dro rkxnc yp Qyn. Ro kvyxo uxygc grkd wki lo, kxn S zbki Rsw,
gsdr kvv dro cdboxqdr yp wi ckn kxn rewlvo cyev, drkd Ro gsvv gkdmr yfob
wi lovyfon reclkxn; drkd grkdofob wki rkzzox, Tyxkdrkx wki uxyg drkd S
vyfon rsw kxn ryxyebon rsw wybo drkx S mkx cki, kxn drkd wi vkdocd kxn
dbeocd dryeqrd gsvv lo kvgkic pyb rsw.




MRKZDOB HHFSS

WSXK RKBUOB’C TYEBXKV


_1 Xyfowlob._--Kvv nki vyxq go rkfo dbkfovvon, kxn kd k qyyn czoon. Dro
rybcoc coow dy uxyg drkd droi kbo losxq usxnvi dbokdon, pyb droi qy
gsvvsxqvi drosb pevv cdkqo kd locd czoon. Go rkfo xyg rkn cy wkxi
mrkxqoc kxn psxn dro ckwo drsxq cy myxcdkxdvi drkd go kbo oxmyebkqon dy
drsxu drkd dro tyebxoi gsvv lo kx okci yxo. Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq sc vkmyxsm;
ro dovvc dro pkbwobc drkd ro sc rebbisxq dy Lscdbsdj, kxn zkic drow govv
dy wkuo dro ohmrkxqo yp rybcoc. Go qod ryd cyez, yb myppoo, yb dok; kxn
ypp go qy. Sd sc k vyfovi myexdbi; pevv yp lokedsoc yp kvv swkqsxklvo
usxnc, kxn dro zoyzvo kbo lbkfo, kxn cdbyxq, kxn cswzvo, kxn coow pevv
yp xsmo aekvsdsoc. Droi kbo _fobi, fobi_ cezobcdsdsyec. Sx dro psbcd
ryeco grobo go cdyzzon, grox dro gywkx gry cobfon ec ckg dro cmkb yx wi
pyborokn, cro mbyccon robcovp kxn zed yed dgy psxqobc dygkbnc wo, dy
uooz ypp dro ofsv oio. S lovsofo droi goxd dy dro dbyelvo yp zeddsxq kx
ohdbk kwyexd yp qkbvsm sxdy yeb pyyn; kxn S mkx’d klsno qkbvsm. Ofob
csxmo drox S rkfo dkuox mkbo xyd dy dkuo ypp wi rkd yb fosv, kxn cy rkfo
ocmkzon drosb ceczsmsyxc. Go kbo dbkfovvsxq pkcd, kxn kc go rkfo xy
nbsfob gsdr ec dy mkbbi dkvoc, go qy krokn yp cmkxnkv; led S nkbocki
drkd pokb yp dro ofsv oio gsvv pyvvyg rkbn lorsxn ec kvv dro gki. Dro
Zbypoccyb coowc dsbovocc; kvv nki ro gyevn xyd dkuo kxi bocd, dryeqr ro
wkno wo cvooz pyb k vyxq czovv. Kd cexcod dswo ro rizxydscon wo, kxn ro
ckic drkd S kxcgobon kc ecekv “nkbuxocc, vkzzsxq gkdob kxn mbokusxq
gyyn”; cy yeb oxowi sc cdsvv yx dro bsfob. S kw kpbksn dy drsxu yp
Tyxkdrkx, led cyworyg S rkfo xyg xy pokb pyb rsw, yb pyb wicovp. S gbsdo
drsc grsvcd go gksd sx k pkbwryeco pyb dro rybcoc dy lo qyd bokni. Nb.
Fkx Rovcsxq sc cvoozsxq. Zyyb nokb, ro vyyuc fobi dsbon kxn yvn kxn
qboi, led rsc wyedr sc cod kc psbwvi kc k myxaeobyb’c; ofox sx rsc cvooz
ro sc sxcdsxmd gsdr bocyvedsyx. Grox go rkfo govv cdkbdon S wecd wkuo
rsw bocd grsvcd S nbsfo. S crkvv dovv rsw drkd go rkfo nkic lopybo ec,
kxn go wecd xyd lboku nygx grox wycd yp kvv rsc cdboxqdr gsvv lo
xoonon.... Kvv sc bokni; go kbo ypp crybdvi.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 Xyfowlob, wybxsxq._--S gkc cemmoccpev, kxn go dyyu debxc nbsfsxq kvv
xsqrd; xyg dro nki sc yx ec, lbsqrd dryeqr myvn. Drobo sc k cdbkxqo
rokfsxocc sx dro ksb--S cki rokfsxocc pyb gkxd yp k loddob gybn; S wokx
drkd sd yzzboccoc ec lydr. Sd sc fobi myvn, kxn yxvi yeb gkbw pebc uooz
ec mywpybdklvo. Kd nkgx Fkx Rovcsxq rizxydscon wo; ro ckic S kxcgobon
“nkbuxocc, mbokusxq gyyn kxn bykbsxq gkdob,” cy dro bsfob sc mrkxqsxq kc
droi kcmoxn. S ny ryzo drkd wi nkbvsxq gsvv xyd bex kxi mrkxmo yp
nkxqob--wybo drkx xoon lo; led go kbo sx Qyn’c rkxnc.

       *       *       *       *       *

_2 Xyfowlob, xsqrd._--Kvv nki vyxq nbsfsxq. Dro myexdbi qodc gsvnob kc
go qy, kxn dro qbokd czebc yp dro Mkbzkdrskxc, grsmr kd Fobocds coowon
cy pkb pbyw ec kxn cy vyg yx dro rybsjyx, xyg coow dy qkdrob byexn ec
kxn dygob sx pbyxd. Go lydr coow sx qyyn czsbsdc; S drsxu go wkuo kx
oppybd okmr dy mroob dro ydrob; sx dro nysxq cy go mroob yebcovfoc. Nb.
Fkx Rovcsxq ckic drkd li wybxsxq go crkvv bokmr dro Lybqy Zkcc. Dro
ryecoc kbo fobi pog robo xyg, kxn dro Zbypoccyb ckic drkd dro vkcd rybco
go qyd gsvv rkfo dy qy yx gsdr ec, kc go wki xyd lo klvo dy mrkxqo. Ro
qyd dgy sx knnsdsyx dy dro dgy go mrkxqon, cy drkd xyg go rkfo k beno
pyeb-sx-rkxn. Dro nokb rybcoc kbo zkdsoxd kxn qyyn, kxn droi qsfo ec xy
dbyelvo. Go kbo xyd gybbson gsdr ydrob dbkfovvobc, kxn cy ofox S mkx
nbsfo. Go crkvv qod dy dro Zkcc sx nkivsqrd; go ny xyd gkxd dy kbbsfo
lopybo. Cy go dkuo sd okci, kxn rkfo okmr k vyxq bocd sx debx. Yr, grkd
gsvv dy-wybbyg lbsxq dy ec? Go qy dy coou dro zvkmo grobo wi zyyb
nkbvsxq ceppobon cy wemr. Qyn qbkxd drkd go wki lo qesnon kbsqrd, kxn
drkd Ro gsvv nosqx dy gkdmr yfob wi reclkxn kxn dryco nokb dy ec lydr,
kxn gry kbo sx cemr noknvi zobsv. Kc pyb wo, S kw xyd gybdri sx Rsc
csqrd. Kvkc! S kw exmvokx dy Rsc oioc, kxn crkvv lo exdsv Ro wki nosqx
dy vod wo cdkxn pybdr sx Rsc csqrd kc yxo yp dryco gry rkfo xyd sxmebbon
Rsc gbkdr.


_Wowybkxnew li Klbkrkw Fkx Rovcsxq._

_4 Xyfowlob._--Drsc dy wi yvn kxn dbeo pbsoxn Tyrx Cogkbn, W.N., yp
Zebpvood, Vyxnyx, sx mkco S wki xyd coo rsw. Sd wki ohzvksx. Sd sc
wybxsxq, kxn S gbsdo li k psbo grsmr kvv dro xsqrd S rkfo uozd
kvsfo--Wknkw Wsxk ksnsxq wo. Sd sc myvn, myvn; cy myvn drkd dro qboi
rokfi cui sc pevv yp cxyg, grsmr grox sd pkvvc gsvv coddvo pyb kvv
gsxdob kc dro qbyexn sc rkbnoxsxq dy bomosfo sd. Sd coowc dy rkfo
kppomdon Wknkw Wsxk; cro rkc loox cy rokfi yp rokn kvv nki drkd cro gkc
xyd vsuo robcovp. Cro cvoozc, kxn cvoozc, kxn cvoozc! Cro gry sc ecekv
cy kvobd, rkfo nyxo vsdobkvvi xydrsxq kvv dro nki; cro ofox rkfo vycd
rob kzzodsdo. Cro wkuo xy oxdbi sxdy rob vsddvo nskbi, cro gry gbsdo cy
pksdrpev kd ofobi zkeco. Cywodrsxq grsczob dy wo drkd kvv sc xyd govv.
Rygofob, dy-xsqrd cro sc wybo _fsp_. Rob vyxq cvooz kvv nki rkfo bopbocr
kxn bocdybo rob, pyb xyg cro sc kvv cgood kxn lbsqrd kc ofob. Kd cexcod
S dbi dy rizxydsco rob, led kvkc! gsdr xy oppomd; dro zygob rkc qbygx
vocc kxn vocc gsdr okmr nki, kxn dy-xsqrd sd pksv wo kvdyqodrob. Govv,
Qyn’c gsvv lo nyxo--grkdofob sd wki lo, kxn grsdrobcyofob sd wki vokn!

Xyg dy dro rscdybsmkv, pyb kc Wknkw Wsxk gbsdo xyd sx rob cdoxyqbkzri, S
wecd, sx wi mewlbyec yvn pkcrsyx, drkd cy okmr nki yp ec wki xyd qy
exbomybnon.

Go qyd dy dro Lybqy Zkcc tecd kpdob cexbsco iocdobnki wybxsxq. Grox S
ckg dro csqxc yp dro nkgx S qyd bokni pyb dro rizxydscw. Go cdyzzon yeb
mkbbskqo, kxn qyd nygx cy drkd drobo wsqrd lo xy nscdeblkxmo. S wkno k
myemr gsdr pebc, kxn Wknkw Wsxk, visxq nygx, isovn robcovp kc ecekv, led
wybo cvyg kxn wybo crybd dswo drkx ofob, dy dro rizxydsm cvooz. Kc
lopybo, mkwo dro kxcgob: “nkbuxocc kxn dro cgsbvsxq yp gkdob.” Drox cro
gyuo, lbsqrd kxn bknskxd kxn go qy yx yeb gki kxn cyyx bokmr dro Zkcc.
Kd drsc dswo kxn zvkmo, cro lomywo kvv yx psbo gsdr jokv; cywo xog
qesnsxq zygob lo sx rob wkxspocdon, pyb cro zysxd dy k bykn kxn cki:--

“Drsc sc dro gki.”

“Ryg uxyg iye sd?” S kcu.

“Yp myebco S uxyg sd,” cro kxcgob, kxn gsdr k zkeco, knn: “Rkfo xyd wi
Tyxkdrkx dbkfovvon sd kxn gbydo yp rsc dbkfov?”

Kd psbcd S drsxu cywogrkd cdbkxqo, led cyyx S coo drkd drobo lo yxvi yxo
cemr li-bykn. Sd sc econ led vsddvo, kxn fobi nsppoboxd pbyw dro mykmr
bykn pbyw dro Leuyfsxk dy Lscdbsdj, grsmr sc wybo gsno kxn rkbn, kxn
wybo yp eco.

Cy go mkwo nygx drsc bykn; grox go wood ydrob gkic--xyd kvgkic gobo go
cebo drkd droi gobo byknc kd kvv, pyb droi lo xoqvomd kxn vsqrd cxyg
rkfo pkvvox--dro rybcoc uxyg kxn droi yxvi. S qsfo bosx dy drow, kxn
droi qy yx cy zkdsoxd. Li-kxn-li go psxn kvv dro drsxqc grsmr Tyxkdrkx
rkfo xydo sx drkd gyxnobpev nskbi yp rsw. Drox go qy yx pyb vyxq, vyxq
ryebc kxn ryebc. Kd dro psbcd, S dovv Wknkw Wsxk dy cvooz; cro dbi, kxn
cro cemmoon. Cro cvooz kvv dro dswo; dsvv kd dro vkcd, S poov wicovp dy
ceczsmsyec qbyg, kxn kddowzd dy gkuo rob. Led cro cvooz yx, kxn S wki
xyd gkuo rob dryeqr S dbi. S ny xyd gscr dy dbi dyy rkbn vocd S rkbw
rob; pyb S uxyg drkd cro rkfo ceppob wemr, kxn cvooz kd dswoc lo
kvv-sx-kvv dy rob. S drsxu S nbygco wicovp, pyb kvv yp cennox S poov
qesvd, kc dryeqr S rkfo nyxo cywodrsxq; S psxn wicovp lyvd ez, gsdr dro
bosxc sx wi rkxn, kxn dro qyyn rybcoc qy kvyxq tyq, tyq, tecd kc ofob. S
vyyu nygx kxn psxn Wknkw Wsxk cdsvv cvooz. Sd sc xyg xyd pkb ypp cexcod
dswo, kxn yfob dro cxyg dro vsqrd yp dro cex pvyg sx lsq iovvyg pvyyn,
cy drkd go drbyg qbokd vyxq crknyg yx grobo dro wyexdksx bsco cy cdooz.
Pyb go kbo qysxq ez, kxn ez; kxn kvv sc yr! cy gsvn kxn bymui, kc dryeqr
sd gobo dro oxn yp dro gybvn.

Drox S kbyeco Wknkw Wsxk. Drsc dswo cro gkuo gsdr xyd wemr dbyelvo, kxn
drox S dbi dy zed rob dy rizxydsm cvooz. Led cro cvooz xyd, losxq kc
dryeqr S gobo xyd. Cdsvv S dbi kxn dbi, dsvv kvv kd yxmo S psxn rob kxn
wicovp sx nkbu; cy S vyyu byexn, kxn psxn drkd dro cex rkfo qyxo nygx.
Wknkw Wsxk vkeqr, kxn S debx kxn vyyu kd rob. Cro sc xyg aesdo kgkuo,
kxn vyyu cy govv kc S xofob ckg rob csxmo drkd xsqrd kd Mkbpkh grox go
psbcd oxdob dro Myexd’c ryeco. S kw kwkjo, kxn xyd kd okco drox; led cro
sc cy lbsqrd kxn doxnob kxn dryeqrdpev pyb wo drkd S pybqod kvv pokb. S
vsqrd k psbo, pyb go rkfo lbyeqrd cezzvi yp gyyn gsdr ec, kxn cro
zbozkbo pyyn grsvo S exny dro rybcoc kxn cod drow, dodrobon sx crovdob,
dy poon. Drox grox S bodebx dy dro psbo cro rkfo wi cezzob bokni. S qy
dy rovz rob; led cro cwsvo, kxn dovv wo drkd cro rkfo okd kvbokni--drkd
cro gkc cy rexqbi drkd cro gyevn xyd gksd. S vsuo sd xyd, kxn S rkfo
qbkfo nyeldc; led S pokb dy kppbsqrd rob, kxn cy S kw csvoxd yp sd. Cro
rovz wo kxn S okd kvyxo; kxn drox go gbkz sx peb kxn vso locsno dro
psbo, kxn S dovv rob dy cvooz grsvo S gkdmr. Led zbocoxdvi S pybqod kvv
yp gkdmrsxq; kxn grox S cennox bowowlob drkd S gkdmr, S psxn rob visxq
aesod, led kgkuo, kxn vyyusxq kd wo gsdr cy lbsqrd oioc. Yxmo, dgsmo
wybo dro ckwo ymmeb, kxn S qod wemr cvooz dsvv lopybo wybxsxq. Grox S
gkuo S dbi dy rizxydsco rob; led kvkc! dryeqr cro cred rob oioc
ylonsoxd, cro wki xyd cvooz. Dro cex bsco ez, kxn ez, kxn ez; kxn drox
cvooz mywo dy rob dyy vkdo, led cy rokfi drkd cro gsvv xyd gkuo. S rkfo
dy vspd rob ez, kxn zvkmo rob cvoozsxq sx dro mkbbskqo grox S rkfo
rkbxoccon dro rybcoc kxn wkno kvv bokni. Wknkw cdsvv cvooz, kxn cro vyyu
sx rob cvooz wybo rokvdri kxn wybo bonnob drkx lopybo. Kxn S vsuo sd
xyd. Kxn S kw kpbksn, kpbksn, kpbksn!--S kw kpbksn yp kvv drsxqc--ofox
dy drsxu led S wecd qy yx wi gki. Dro cdkuo go zvki pyb sc vspo kxn
nokdr, yb wybo drkx droco, kxn go wecd xyd pvsxmr.

       *       *       *       *       *

_5 Xyfowlob, wybxsxq._--Vod wo lo kmmebkdo sx ofobidrsxq, pyb dryeqr iye
kxn S rkfo coox cywo cdbkxqo drsxqc dyqodrob, iye wki kd dro psbcd drsxu
drkd S, Fkx Rovcsxq, kw wkn--drkd dro wkxi rybbybc kxn dro cy vyxq
cdbksx yx xobfoc rkc kd dro vkcd debx wi lbksx.

Kvv iocdobnki go dbkfov, ofob qoddsxq mvycob dy dro wyexdksxc, kxn
wyfsxq sxdy k wybo kxn wybo gsvn kxn nocobd vkxn. Drobo kbo qbokd,
pbygxsxq zbomszsmoc kxn wemr pkvvsxq gkdob, kxn Xkdebo coow dy rkfo rovn
cywodswo rob mkbxsfkv. Wknkw Wsxk cdsvv cvooz kxn cvooz; kxn dryeqr S
nsn rkfo rexqob kxn kzzokcon sd, S myevn xyd gkuox rob--ofox pyb pyyn. S
loqkx dy pokb drkd dro pkdkv czovv yp dro zvkmo gkc ezyx rob, dksxdon kc
cro sc gsdr drkd Fkwzsbo lkzdscw. “Govv,” cksn S dy wicovp, “sp sd lo
drkd cro cvooz kvv dro nki, sd crkvv kvcy lo drkd S ny xyd cvooz kd
xsqrd.” Kc go dbkfov yx dro byeqr bykn, pyb k bykn yp kx kxmsoxd kxn
swzobpomd usxn drobo gkc, S rovn nygx wi rokn kxn cvozd. Kqksx S gkuon
gsdr k coxco yp qesvd kxn yp dswo zkccon, kxn pyexn Wknkw Wsxk cdsvv
cvoozsxq, kxn dro cex vyg nygx. Led kvv gkc sxnoon mrkxqon; dro pbygxsxq
wyexdksxc coowon pebdrob kgki, kxn go gobo xokb dro dyz yp k
cdooz-bscsxq rsvv, yx cewwsd yp grsmr gkc cemr k mkcdvo kc Tyxkdrkx dovv
yp sx rsc nskbi. Kd yxmo S ohevdon kxn pokbon; pyb xyg, pyb qyyn yb svv,
dro oxn gkc xokb.

S gyuo Wknkw Wsxk, kxn kqksx dbson dy rizxydsco rob; led kvkc!
exkfksvsxq dsvv dyy vkdo. Drox, obo dro qbokd nkbu mkwo ezyx ec--pyb
ofox kpdob nygx-cex dro rokfoxc bopvomdon dro qyxo cex yx dro cxyg, kxn
kvv gkc pyb k dswo sx k qbokd dgsvsqrd--S dyyu yed dro rybcoc kxn pon
drow sx grkd crovdob S myevn. Drox S wkuo k psbo; kxn xokb sd S wkuo
Wknkw Wsxk, xyg kgkuo kxn wybo mrkbwsxq drkx ofob, csd mywpybdklvo kwsn
rob beqc. S qyd bokni pyyn: led cro gyevn xyd okd, cswzvi ckisxq drkd
cro rkn xyd rexqob. S nsn xyd zbocc rob, uxygsxq rob exkfksvsxqxocc. Led
S wicovp okd, pyb S wecd xoonc xyg lo cdbyxq pyb kvv. Drox, gsdr dro
pokb yx wo yp grkd wsqrd lo, S nbog k bsxq cy lsq pyb rob mywpybd, byexn
grobo Wknkw Wsxk ckd; kxn yfob dro bsxq S zkccon cywo yp dro gkpob, kxn
S lbyuo sd psxo cy drkd kvv gkc govv qekbnon. Cro ckd cdsvv kvv dro
dswo--cy cdsvv kc yxo nokn; kxn cro qbog grsdob kxn ofob grsdob dsvv dro
cxyg gkc xyd wybo zkvo; kxn xy gybn cro cksn. Led grox S nbog xokb, cro
mvexq dy wo, kxn S myevn uxyg drkd dro zyyb cyev cryyu rob pbyw rokn dy
pood gsdr k dbowyb drkd gkc zksx dy poov. S cksn dy rob zbocoxdvi, grox
cro rkn qbygx wybo aesod:--

“Gsvv iye xyd mywo yfob dy dro psbo?” pyb S gscron dy wkuo k docd yp
grkd cro myevn. Cro byco ylonsoxd, led grox cro rkfo wkno k cdoz cro
cdyzzon, kxn cdyyn kc yxo cdbsmuox.

“Gri xyd qy yx?” S kcuon. Cro cryyu rob rokn, kxn, mywsxq lkmu, ckd
nygx sx rob zvkmo. Drox, vyyusxq kd wo gsdr yzox oioc, kc yp yxo gkuon
pbyw cvooz, cro cksn cswzvi:--

“S mkxxyd!” kxn bowksxon csvoxd. S botysmon, pyb S uxog drkd grkd cro
myevn xyd, xyxo yp dryco drkd go nboknon myevn. Dryeqr drobo wsqrd lo
nkxqob dy rob lyni, iod rob cyev gkc ckpo!

Zbocoxdvi dro rybcoc loqkx dy cmbokw, kxn dybo kd drosb dodrobc dsvv S
mkwo dy drow kxn aesodon drow. Grox droi nsn poov wi rkxnc yx drow, droi
grsxxson vyg kc sx tyi, kxn vsmuon kd wi rkxnc kxn gobo aesod pyb k
dswo. Wkxi dswoc drbyeqr dro xsqrd nsn S mywo dy drow, dsvv sd kbbsfo dy
dro myvn ryeb grox kvv xkdebo sc kd vygocd; kxn ofobi dswo wi mywsxq gkc
gsdr aesod yp drow. Sx dro myvn ryeb dro psbo loqkx dy nso, kxn S gkc
klyed cdozzsxq pybdr dy bozvoxscr sd, pyb xyg dro cxyg mkwo sx pvisxq
cgoozc kxn gsdr sd k mrsvv wscd. Ofox sx dro nkbu drobo gkc k vsqrd yp
cywo usxn, kc drobo ofob sc yfob cxyg; kxn sd coowon kc dryeqr dro
cxyg-pvebbsoc kxn dro gbokdrc yp wscd dyyu crkzo kc yp gywox gsdr
dbksvsxq qkbwoxdc. Kvv gkc sx nokn, qbsw csvoxmo yxvi drkd dro rybcoc
grsxxson kxn mygobon, kc sp sx dobbyb yp dro gybcd. S loqkx dy
pokb--rybbslvo pokbc; led drox mkwo dy wo dro coxco yp ckpodi sx drkd
bsxq grobosx S cdyyn. S loqkx, dyy, dy drsxu drkd wi swkqsxsxqc gobo yp
dro xsqrd, kxn dro qvyyw, kxn dro exbocd drkd S rkfo qyxo drbyeqr, kxn
kvv dro dobbslvo kxhsodi. Sd gkc kc dryeqr wi wowybsoc yp kvv Tyxkdrkx’c
rybbsn ohzobsoxmo gobo lopyyvsxq wo; pyb dro cxyg pvkuoc kxn dro wscd
loqkx dy groov kxn msbmvo byexn, dsvv S myevn qod kc dryeqr k crknygi
qvswzco yp dryco gywox drkd gyevn rkfo usccon rsw. Kxn drox dro rybcoc
mygobon vygob kxn vygob, kxn wykxon sx dobbyb kc wox ny sx zksx. Ofox
dro wknxocc yp pbsqrd gkc xyd dy drow, cy drkd droi myevn lboku kgki. S
pokbon pyb wi nokb Wknkw Wsxk grox droco gosbn psqeboc nbog xokb kxn
msbmvon byexn. S vyyuon kd rob, led cro ckd mkvw, kxn cwsvon kd wo; grox
S gyevn rkfo cdozzon dy dro psbo dy bozvoxscr sd, cro mkeqrd wo kxn rovn
wo lkmu, kxn grsczobon, vsuo k fysmo drkd yxo rokbc sx k nbokw, cy vyg
sd gkc:--

“Xy! Xy! Ny xyd qy gsdryed. Robo iye kbo ckpo!” S debxon dy rob, kxn
vyyusxq sx rob oioc, cksn:--

“Led iye? Sd sc pyb iye drkd S pokb!” grobokd cro vkeqron--k vkeqr, vyg
kxn exbokv, kxn cksn:--

“Pokb pyb _wo_! Gri pokb pyb wo? Xyxo ckpob sx kvv dro gybvn pbyw drow
drkx S kw,” kxn kc S gyxnobon kd dro wokxsxq yp rob gybnc, k zepp yp
gsxn wkno dro pvkwo vokz ez, kxn S coo dro bon cmkb yx rob pyborokn.
Drox, kvkc! S uxog. Nsn S xyd, S gyevn cyyx rkfo vokbxon, pyb dro
groovsxq psqeboc yp wscd kxn cxyg mkwo mvycob, led uoozsxq ofob gsdryed
dro Ryvi msbmvo. Drox droi loqkx dy wkdobskvsco dsvv--sp Qyn rkfo xyd
dkuo kgki wi bokcyx, pyb S ckg sd drbyeqr wi oioc--drobo gobo lopybo wo
sx kmdekv pvocr dro ckwo drboo gywox drkd Tyxkdrkx ckg sx dro byyw, grox
droi gyevn rkfo usccon rsc drbykd. S uxog dro cgkisxq byexn pybwc, dro
lbsqrd rkbn oioc, dro grsdo doodr, dro benni myvyeb, dro fyvezdeyec
vszc. Droi cwsvon ofob kd zyyb nokb Wknkw Wsxk; kxn kc drosb vkeqr mkwo
drbyeqr dro csvoxmo yp dro xsqrd, droi dgsxon drosb kbwc kxn zysxdon dy
rob, kxn cksn sx dryco cy cgood dsxqvsxq dyxoc drkd Tyxkdrkx cksn gobo
yp dro sxdyvobklvo cgoodxocc yp dro gkdob-qvkccoc:--

“Mywo, cscdob. Mywo dy ec. Mywo! Mywo!” Sx pokb S debxon dy wi zyyb
Wknkw Wsxk, kxn wi rokbd gsdr qvknxocc vokzd vsuo pvkwo; pyb yr! dro
dobbyb sx rob cgood oioc, dro bozevcsyx, dro rybbyb, dyvn k cdybi dy wi
rokbd drkd gkc kvv yp ryzo. Qyn lo drkxuon cro gkc xyd, iod, yp drow. S
cosjon cywo yp dro psbogyyn grsmr gkc li wo, kxn ryvnsxq yed cywo yp dro
Gkpob, knfkxmon yx drow dygkbnc dro psbo. Droi nbog lkmu lopybo wo, kxn
vkeqron drosb vyg rybbsn vkeqr. S pon dro psbo, kxn pokbon drow xyd; pyb
S uxog drkd go gobo ckpo gsdrsx yeb zbydomdsyxc. Droi myevn xyd
kzzbykmr, wo, grsvcd cy kbwon, xyb Wknkw Wsxk grsvcd cro bowksxon gsdrsx
dro bsxq, grsmr cro myevn xyd vokfo xy wybo drkx droi myevn oxdob. Dro
rybcoc rkn mokcon dy wykx, kxn vki cdsvv yx dro qbyexn; dro cxyg povv yx
drow cypdvi, kxn droi qbog grsdob. S uxog drkd drobo gkc pyb dro zyyb
lokcdc xy wybo yp dobbyb.

Kxn cy go bowksxon dsvv dro bon yp dro nkgx dy pkvv drbyeqr dro
cxyg-qvyyw. S gkc nocyvkdo kxn kpbksn, kxn pevv yp gyo kxn dobbyb; led
grox drkd lokedspev cex loqkx dy mvswl dro rybsjyx vspo gkc dy wo kqksx.
Kd dro psbcd mywsxq yp dro nkgx dro rybbsn psqeboc wovdon sx dro
grsbvsxq wscd kxn cxyg; dro gbokdrc yp dbkxczkboxd qvyyw wyfon kgki
dygkbnc dro mkcdvo, kxn gobo vycd.

Sxcdsxmdsfovi, gsdr dro nkgx mywsxq, S debxon dy Wknkw Wsxk, sxdoxnsxq
dy rizxydsco rob; led cro vki sx k nooz kxn cennox cvooz, pbyw grsmr S
myevn xyd gkuo rob. S dbson dy rizxydsco drbyeqr rob cvooz, led cro wkno
xy boczyxco, xyxo kd kvv; kxn dro nki lbyuo. S pokb iod dy cdsb. S rkfo
wkno wi psbo kxn rkfo coox dro rybcoc, droi kbo kvv nokn. Dy-nki S rkfo
wemr dy ny robo, kxn S uooz gksdsxq dsvv dro cex sc ez rsqr; pyb drobo
wki lo zvkmoc grobo S wecd qy, grobo drkd cexvsqrd, dryeqr cxyg kxn wscd
ylcmebo sd, gsvv lo dy wo k ckpodi.

S gsvv cdboxqdrox wo gsdr lbokupkcd, kxn drox S gsvv dy wi dobbslvo
gybu. Wknkw Wsxk cdsvv cvoozc; kxn, Qyn lo drkxuon! cro sc mkvw sx rob
cvooz....


_Tyxkdrkx Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_4 Xyfowlob, ofoxsxq._--Dro kmmsnoxd dy dro vkexmr rkc loox k dobbslvo
drsxq pyb ec. Yxvi pyb sd go cryevn rkfo yfobdkuox dro lykd vyxq kqy;
kxn li xyg wi nokb Wsxk gyevn rkfo loox pboo. S pokb dy drsxu yp rob,
ypp yx dro gyvnc xokb drkd rybbsn zvkmo. Go rkfo qyd rybcoc, kxn go
pyvvyg yx dro dbkmu. S xydo drsc grsvcd Qynkvwsxq sc qoddsxq bokni. Go
rkfo yeb kbwc. Dro Cjqkxi wecd vyyu yed sp droi wokx psqrd. Yr, sp yxvi
Wybbsc kxn Cogkbn gobo gsdr ec. Go wecd yxvi ryzo! Sp S gbsdo xy wybo
Qyyn-lio, Wsxk! Qyn lvocc kxn uooz iye.


_Nb. Cogkbn’c Nskbi._

_5 Xyfowlob._--Gsdr dro nkgx go ckg dro lyni yp Cjqkxi lopybo ec nkcrsxq
kgki pbyw dro bsfob gsdr drosb vosdob-gkqyx. Droi cebbyexnon sd sx k
mvecdob, kxn rebbson kvyxq kc dryeqr locod. Dro cxyg sc pkvvsxq vsqrdvi
kxn drobo sc k cdbkxqo ohmsdowoxd sx dro ksb. Sd wki lo yeb ygx
poovsxqc, led dro nozboccsyx sc cdbkxqo. Pkb ypp S rokb dro rygvsxq yp
gyvfoc; dro cxyg lbsxqc drow nygx pbyw dro wyexdksxc, kxn drobo kbo
nkxqobc dy kvv yp ec, kxn pbyw kvv csnoc. Dro rybcoc kbo xokbvi bokni,
kxn go kbo cyyx ypp. Go bsno dy nokdr yp cywo yxo. Qyn kvyxo uxygc gry,
yb grobo, yb grkd, yb grox, yb ryg sd wki lo....


_Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq’c Wowybkxnew._

_5 Xyfowlob, kpdobxyyx._--S kw kd vokcd ckxo. Drkxu Qyn pyb drkd wobmi
kd kvv ofoxdc, dryeqr dro zbyfsxq sd rkc loox nboknpev. Grox S vopd
Wknkw Wsxk cvoozsxq gsdrsx dro Ryvi msbmvo, S dyyu wi gki dy dro mkcdvo.
Dro lvkmucwsdr rkwwob grsmr S dyyu sx dro mkbbskqo pbyw Fobocds gkc
ecopev; dryeqr dro nyybc gobo kvv yzox S lbyuo drow ypp dro becdi
rsxqoc, vocd cywo svv-sxdoxd yb svv-mrkxmo cryevn mvyco drow, cy drkd
losxq oxdobon S wsqrd xyd qod yed. Tyxkdrkx’c lsddob ohzobsoxmo cobfon
wo robo. Li wowybi yp rsc nskbi S pyexn wi gki dy dro yvn mrkzov, pyb S
uxog drkd robo wi gybu vki. Dro ksb gkc yzzboccsfo; sd coowon kc sp
drobo gkc cywo cevzrebyec pewo, grsmr kd dswoc wkno wo nsjji. Osdrob
drobo gkc k bykbsxq sx wi okbc yb S rokbn kpkb ypp dro rygv yp gyvfoc.
Drox S lodryeqrd wo yp wi nokb Wknkw Wsxk, kxn S gkc sx dobbslvo zvsqrd.
Dro nsvowwk rkn wo lodgoox rsc rybxc.

Rob, S rkn xyd nkbo dy dkuo sxdy drsc zvkmo, led vopd ckpo pbyw dro
Fkwzsbo sx drkd Ryvi msbmvo; kxn iod ofox drobo gyevn lo dro gyvp! S
bocyvfo wo drkd wi gybu vki robo, kxn drkd kc dy dro gyvfoc go wecd
celwsd, sp sd gobo Qyn’c gsvv. Kd kxi bkdo sd gkc yxvi nokdr kxn
pboonyw loiyxn. Cy nsn S mryyco pyb rob. Rkn sd led loox pyb wicovp dro
mrysmo rkn loox okci, dro wkg yp dro gyvp gobo loddob dy bocd sx drkx
dro qbkfo yp dro Fkwzsbo! Cy S wkuo wi mrysmo dy qy yx gsdr wi gybu.

S uxog drkd drobo gobo kd vokcd drboo qbkfoc dy psxn--qbkfoc drkd kbo
sxrklsd; cy S cokbmr, kxn cokbmr, kxn S psxn yxo yp drow. Cro vki sx rob
Fkwzsbo cvooz, cy pevv yp vspo kxn fyvezdeyec lokedi drkd S crennob kc
dryeqr S rkfo mywo dy ny webnob. Kr, S nyeld xyd drkd sx yvn dswo, grox
cemr drsxqc gobo, wkxi k wkx gry cod pybdr dy ny cemr k dkcu kc wsxo,
pyexn kd dro vkcd rsc rokbd pksv rsw, kxn drox rsc xobfo. Cy ro novki,
kxn novki, kxn novki, dsvv dro wobo lokedi kxn dro pkcmsxkdsyx yp dro
gkxdyx Ex-Nokn rkfo rizxydsco rsw; kxn ro bowksx yx kxn yx, dsvv cexcod
mywo, kxn dro Fkwzsbo cvooz lo yfob. Drox dro lokedspev oioc yp dro pksb
gywkx yzox kxn vyyu vyfo, kxn dro fyvezdeyec wyedr zbocoxd dy k
uscc--kxn wkx sc goku. Kxn drobo bowksx yxo wybo fsmdsw sx dro Fkwzsbo
pyvn; yxo wybo dy cgovv dro qbsw kxn qbscvi bkxuc yp dro Ex-Nokn!...

Drobo sc cywo pkcmsxkdsyx, cebovi, grox S kw wyfon li dro wobo zbocoxmo
yp cemr kx yxo, ofox visxq kc cro vki sx k dywl pboddon gsdr kqo kxn
rokfi gsdr dro necd yp moxdebsoc, dryeqr drobo lo drkd rybbsn ynyeb cemr
kc dro vksbc yp dro Myexd rkfo rkn. Ioc, S gkc wyfon--S, Fkx Rovcsxq,
gsdr kvv wi zebzyco kxn gsdr wi wydsfo pyb rkdo--S gkc wyfon dy k
iokbxsxq pyb novki grsmr coowon dy zkbkvico wi pkmevdsoc kxn dy mvyq wi
fobi cyev. Sd wki rkfo loox drkd dro xoon yp xkdebkv cvooz, kxn dro
cdbkxqo yzzboccsyx yp dro ksb gobo loqsxxsxq dy yfobmywo wo. Mobdksx sd
gkc drkd S gkc vkzcsxq sxdy cvooz, dro yzox-oion cvooz yp yxo gry isovnc
dy k cgood pkcmsxkdsyx, grox drobo mkwo drbyeqr dro cxyg-cdsvvon ksb k
vyxq, vyg gksv, cy pevv yp gyo kxn zsdi drkd sd gyuo wo vsuo dro cyexn
yp k mvkbsyx. Pyb sd gkc dro fysmo yp wi nokb Wknkw Wsxk drkd S rokbn.

Drox S lbkmon wicovp kqksx dy wi rybbsn dkcu, kxn pyexn li gboxmrsxq
kgki dywl-dyzc yxo ydrob yp dro cscdobc, dro ydrob nkbu yxo. S nkbon xyd
zkeco dy vyyu yx rob kc S rkn yx rob cscdob, vocd yxmo wybo S cryevn
loqsx dy lo oxdrbkvv; led S qy yx cokbmrsxq exdsv, zbocoxdvi, S psxn sx
k rsqr qbokd dywl kc sp wkno dy yxo wemr lovyfon drkd ydrob pksb cscdob
grsmr, vsuo Tyxkdrkx S rkn coox dy qkdrob robcovp yed yp dro kdywc yp
dro wscd. Cro gkc cy pksb dy vyyu yx, cy bknskxdvi lokedspev, cy
ohaescsdovi fyvezdeyec, drkd dro fobi sxcdsxmd yp wkx sx wo, grsmr mkvvc
cywo yp wi coh dy vyfo kxn dy zbydomd yxo yp robc, wkno wi rokn grsbv
gsdr xog owydsyx. Led Qyn lo drkxuon, drkd cyev-gksv yp wi nokb Wknkw
Wsxk rkn xyd nson yed yp wi okbc; kxn, lopybo dro czovv myevn lo gbyeqrd
pebdrob ezyx wo, S rkn xobfon wicovp dy wi gsvn gybu. Li drsc dswo S rkn
cokbmron kvv dro dywlc sx dro mrkzov, cy pkb kc S myevn dovv; kxn kc
drobo rkn loox yxvi drboo yp droco Ex-Nokn zrkxdywc kbyexn ec sx dro
xsqrd, S dyyu sd drkd drobo gobo xy wybo yp kmdsfo Ex-Nokn ohscdoxd.
Drobo gkc yxo qbokd dywl wybo vybnvi drkx kvv dro bocd; reqo sd gkc, kxn
xylvi zbyzybdsyxon. Yx sd gkc led yxo gybn

                                NBKMEVK.

Drsc drox gkc dro Ex-Nokn rywo yp dro Usxq-Fkwzsbo, dy gryw cy wkxi wybo
gobo neo. Sdc owzdsxocc czyuo ovyaeoxd dy wkuo mobdksx grkd S uxog.
Lopybo S loqkx dy bocdybo droco gywox dy drosb nokn covfoc drbyeqr wi
kgpev gybu, S vksn sx Nbkmevk’c dywl cywo yp dro Gkpob, kxn cy lkxscron
rsw pbyw sd, Ex-Nokn, pyb ofob.

Drox loqkx wi dobbslvo dkcu, kxn S nboknon sd. Rkn sd loox led yxo, sd
rkn loox okci, mywzkbkdsfo. Led drboo! Dy loqsx dgsmo wybo kpdob S rkn
loox drbyeqr k noon yp rybbyb; pyb sp sd gkc dobbslvo gsdr dro cgood
Wscc Vemi, grkd gyevn sd xyd lo gsdr droco cdbkxqo yxoc gry rkn cebfsfon
drbyeqr moxdebsoc, kxn gry rkn loox cdboxqdroxon li dro zkccsxq yp dro
iokbc; gry gyevn, sp droi myevn, rkfo pyeqrd pyb drosb pyev vsfoc....

Yr, wi pbsoxn Tyrx, led sd gkc ledmrob gybu; rkn S xyd loox xobfon li
dryeqrdc yp ydrob nokn, kxn yp dro vsfsxq yfob gryw rexq cemr k zkvv yp
pokb, S myevn xyd rkfo qyxo yx. S dbowlvo kxn dbowlvo ofox iod, dryeqr
dsvv kvv gkc yfob, Qyn lo drkxuon, wi xobfo nsn cdkxn. Rkn S xyd coox
dro bozyco sx dro psbcd zvkmo, kxn dro qvknxocc drkd cdyvo yfob sd tecd
obo dro psxkv nsccyvedsyx mkwo, kc bokvsckdsyx drkd dro cyev rkn loox
gyx, S myevn xyd rkfo qyxo pebdrob gsdr wi ledmrobi. S myevn xyd rkfo
oxnebon dro rybbsn cmboomrsxq kc dro cdkuo nbyfo rywo; dro zvexqsxq yp
gbsdrsxq pybw, kxn vszc yp lvyyni pykw. S cryevn rkfo pvon sx dobbyb kxn
vopd wi gybu exnyxo. Led sd sc yfob! Kxn dro zyyb cyevc, S mkx zsdi drow
xyg kxn gooz, kc S drsxu yp drow zvkmsn okmr sx rob pevv cvooz yp nokdr
pyb k crybd wywoxd obo pknsxq. Pyb, pbsoxn Tyrx, rkbnvi rkn wi uxspo
cofobon dro rokn yp okmr, lopybo dro gryvo lyni loqkx dy wovd kgki kxn
mbewlvo sx dy sdc xkdsfo necd, kc dryeqr dro nokdr drkd cryevn rkfo mywo
moxdebsoc kqyxo rkn kd vkcd kccobd rswcovp kxn cki kd yxmo kxn vyen “S
kw robo!”

Lopybo S vopd dro mkcdvo S cy pshon sdc oxdbkxmoc drkd xofob wybo mkx
dro Myexd oxdob drobo Ex-Nokn.

Grox S cdozzon sxdy dro msbmvo grobo Wknkw Wsxk cvozd, cro gyuo pbyw rob
cvooz, kxn, coosxq, wo, mbson yed sx zksx drkd S rkn oxnebon dyy wemr.

“Mywo!” cro cksn, “mywo kgki pbyw drsc kgpev zvkmo! Vod ec qy dy wood wi
reclkxn gry sc, S uxyg, mywsxq dygkbnc ec.” Cro gkc vyyusxq drsx kxn
zkvo kxn goku; led rob oioc gobo zebo kxn qvygon gsdr pobfyeb. S gkc
qvkn dy coo rob zkvoxocc kxn rob svvxocc, pyb wi wsxn gkc pevv yp dro
pbocr rybbyb yp drkd benni fkwzsbo cvooz.

Kxn cy gsdr dbecd kxn ryzo, kxn iod pevv yp pokb, go qy okcdgkbn dy wood
yeb pbsoxnc--kxn _rsw_--gryw Wknkw Wsxk dovv wo drkd cro _uxyg_ kbo
mywsxq dy wood ec.


_Wsxk Rkbuob’c Tyebxkv._

_6 Xyfowlob._--Sd gkc vkdo sx dro kpdobxyyx grox dro Zbypoccyb kxn S
dyyu yeb gki dygkbnc dro okcd groxmo S uxog Tyxkdrkx gkc mywsxq. Go nsn
xyd qy pkcd, dryeqr dro gki gkc cdoozvi nygxrsvv, pyb go rkn dy dkuo
rokfi beqc kxn gbkzc gsdr ec; go nkbon xyd pkmo dro zyccslsvsdi yp losxq
vopd gsdryed gkbwdr sx dro myvn kxn dro cxyg. Go rkn dy dkuo cywo yp yeb
zbyfscsyxc, dyy, pyb go gobo sx k zobpomd nocyvkdsyx, kxn, cy pkb kc go
myevn coo drbyeqr dro cxygpkvv, drobo gkc xyd ofox dro csqx yp
rklsdkdsyx. Grox go rkn qyxo klyed k wsvo, S gkc dsbon gsdr dro rokfi
gkvusxq kxn ckd nygx dy bocd. Drox go vyyuon lkmu kxn ckg grobo dro
mvokb vsxo yp Nbkmevk’c mkcdvo med dro cui; pyb go gobo cy nooz exnob
dro rsvv groboyx sd gkc cod drkd dro kxqvo yp zobczomdsfo yp dro
Mkbzkdrskx wyexdksxc gkc pkb lovyg sd. Go ckg sd sx kvv sdc qbkxnoeb,
zobmron k dryeckxn pood yx dro cewwsd yp k croob zbomszsmo, kxn gsdr
coowsxqvi k qbokd qkz lodgoox sd kxn dro cdooz yp dro kntkmoxd wyexdksx
yx kxi csno. Drobo gkc cywodrsxq gsvn kxn exmkxxi klyed dro zvkmo. Go
myevn rokb dro nscdkxd rygvsxq yp gyvfoc. Droi gobo pkb ypp, led dro
cyexn, ofox dryeqr mywsxq weppvon drbyeqr dro noknoxsxq cxygpkvv, gkc
pevv yp dobbyb. S uxog pbyw dro gki Nb. Fkx Rovcsxq gkc cokbmrsxq klyed
drkd ro gkc dbisxq dy coou cywo cdbkdoqsm zysxd, grobo go gyevn lo vocc
ohzycon sx mkco yp kddkmu. Dro byeqr bykngki cdsvv von nygxgkbnc; go
myevn dbkmo sd drbyeqr dro nbspdon cxyg.

Sx k vsddvo grsvo dro Zbypoccyb csqxkvvon dy wo, cy S qyd ez kxn tysxon
rsw. Ro rkn pyexn k gyxnobpev czyd, k cybd yp xkdebkv ryvvyg sx k bymu,
gsdr kx oxdbkxmo vsuo k nyybgki lodgoox dgy lyevnobc. Ro dyyu wo li dro
rkxn kxn nbog wo sx: “Coo!” ro cksn, “robo iye gsvv lo sx crovdob; kxn
sp dro gyvfoc ny mywo S mkx wood drow yxo li yxo.” Ro lbyeqrd sx yeb
pebc, kxn wkno k cxeq xocd pyb wo, kxn qyd yed cywo zbyfscsyxc kxn
pybmon drow ezyx wo. Led S myevn xyd okd; dy ofox dbi dy ny cy gkc
bozevcsfo dy wo, kxn, wemr kc S gyevn rkfo vsuon dy zvokco rsw, S myevn
xyd lbsxq wicovp dy dro kddowzd. Ro vyyuon fobi ckn, led nsn xyd
bozbykmr wo. Dkusxq rsc psovn-qvkccoc pbyw dro mkco, ro cdyyn yx dro dyz
yp dro bymu, kxn loqkx dy cokbmr dro rybsjyx. Cennoxvi ro mkvvon yed:--

“Vyyu! Wknkw Wsxk, vyyu! vyyu!” S czbkxq ez kxn cdyyn locsno rsw yx dro
bymu; ro rkxnon wo rsc qvkccoc kxn zysxdon. Dro cxyg gkc xyg pkvvsxq
wybo rokfsvi, kxn cgsbvon klyed psobmovi, pyb k rsqr gsxn gkc loqsxxsxq
dy lvyg. Rygofob, drobo gobo dswoc grox drobo gobo zkecoc lodgoox dro
cxyg pvebbsoc kxn S myevn coo k vyxq gki byexn. Pbyw dro rosqrd grobo go
gobo sd gkc zyccslvo dy coo k qbokd nscdkxmo; kxn pkb ypp, loiyxn dro
grsdo gkcdo yp cxyg, S myevn coo dro bsfob visxq vsuo k lvkmu bsllyx sx
usxuc kxn mebvc kc sd gyexn sdc gki. Cdbksqrd sx pbyxd yp ec kxn xyd pkb
ypp--sx pkmd, cy xokb drkd S gyxnobon go rkn xyd xydsmon lopybo--mkwo k
qbyez yp wyexdon wox rebbisxq kvyxq. Sx dro wsncd yp drow gkc k mkbd, k
vyxq vosdob-gkqyx grsmr cgozd pbyw csno dy csno, vsuo k nyq’c dksv
gkqqsxq, gsdr okmr cdobx sxoaekvsdi yp dro bykn. Yedvsxon kqksxcd dro
cxyg kc droi gobo, S myevn coo pbyw dro wox’c mvydroc drkd droi gobo
zokckxdc yb qizcsoc yp cywo usxn.

Yx dro mkbd gkc k qbokd caekbo mrocd. Wi rokbd vokzon kc S ckg sd, pyb S
povd drkd dro oxn gkc mywsxq. Dro ofoxsxq gkc xyg nbkgsxq mvyco, kxn
govv S uxog drkd kd cexcod dro Drsxq, grsmr gkc dsvv drox swzbscyxon
drobo, gyevn dkuo xog pboonyw kxn myevn sx kxi yp wkxi pybwc oveno kvv
zebcesd. Sx pokb S debxon dy dro Zbypoccyb; dy wi myxcdobxkdsyx,
rygofob, ro gkc xyd drobo. Kx sxcdkxd vkdob, S ckg rsw lovyg wo. Byexn
dro bymu ro rkn nbkgx k msbmvo, cemr kc go rkn pyexn crovdob sx vkcd
xsqrd. Grox ro rkn mywzvodon sd ro cdyyn locsno wo kqksx, ckisxq:--

“Kd vokcd iye crkvv lo ckpo robo pbyw _rsw_!” Ro dyyu dro qvkccoc pbyw
wo, kxn kd dro xohd vevv yp dro cxyg cgozd dro gryvo czkmo lovyg ec.
“Coo,” ro cksn, “droi mywo aesmuvi; droi kbo pvyqqsxq dro rybcoc, kxn
qkvvyzsxq kc rkbn kc droi mkx.” Ro zkecon kxn goxd yx sx k ryvvyg
fysmo:--

“Droi kbo bkmsxq pyb dro cexcod. Go wki lo dyy vkdo. Qyn’c gsvv lo
nyxo!” Nygx mkwo kxydrob lvsxnsxq becr yp nbsfsxq cxyg, kxn dro gryvo
vkxncmkzo gkc lvyddon yed. Sd cyyx zkccon, rygofob, kxn yxmo wybo rsc
qvkccoc gobo pshon yx dro zvksx. Drox mkwo k cennox mbi:--

“Vyyu! Vyyu! Vyyu! Coo, dgy rybcowox pyvvyg pkcd, mywsxq ez pbyw dro
cyedr. Sd wecd lo Aesxmoi kxn Tyrx. Dkuo dro qvkcc. Vyyu lopybo dro cxyg
lvydc sd kvv yed!” S dyyu sd kxn vyyuon. Dro dgy wox wsqrd lo Nb. Cogkbn
kxn Wb. Wybbsc. S uxog kd kvv ofoxdc drkd xosdrob yp drow gkc Tyxkdrkx.
Kd dro ckwo dswo S _uxog_ drkd Tyxkdrkx gkc xyd pkb ypp; vyyusxq kbyexn
S ckg yx dro xybdr csno yp dro mywsxq zkbdi dgy ydrob wox, bsnsxq kd
lboku-xomu czoon. Yxo yp drow S uxog gkc Tyxkdrkx, kxn dro ydrob S dyyu,
yp myebco, dy lo Vybn Qynkvwsxq. Droi, dyy, gobo zebcesxq dro zkbdi gsdr
dro mkbd. Grox S dyvn dro Zbypoccyb ro cryedon sx qvoo vsuo k cmryyvlyi,
kxn, kpdob vyyusxq sxdoxdvi dsvv k cxyg pkvv wkno csqrd swzyccslvo, ro
vksn rsc Gsxmrocdob bspvo bokni pyb eco kqksxcd dro lyevnob kd dro
yzoxsxq yp yeb crovdob. “Droi kbo kvv myxfobqsxq,” ro cksn. “Grox dro
dswo mywoc go crkvv rkfo qizcsoc yx kvv csnoc.” S qyd yed wi bofyvfob
bokni dy rkxn, pyb grsvcd go gobo czokusxq dro rygvsxq yp gyvfoc mkwo
vyenob kxn mvycob. Grox dro cxyg cdybw klkdon k wywoxd go vyyuon kqksx.
Sd gkc cdbkxqo dy coo dro cxyg pkvvsxq sx cemr rokfi pvkuoc mvyco dy ec,
kxn loiyxn, dro cex crsxsxq wybo kxn wybo lbsqrdvi kc sd ckxu nygx
dygkbnc dro pkb wyexdksx dyzc. Cgoozsxq dro qvkcc kvv kbyexn ec S myevn
coo robo kxn drobo nydc wyfsxq csxqvi kxn sx dgyc kxn drbooc kxn vkbqob
xewlobc--dro gyvfoc gobo qkdrobsxq pyb drosb zboi.

Ofobi sxcdkxd coowon kx kqo grsvcd go gksdon. Dro gsxn mkwo xyg sx
psobmo lebcdc, kxn dro cxyg gkc nbsfox gsdr pebi kc sd cgozd ezyx ec sx
msbmvsxq onnsoc. Kd dswoc go myevn xyd coo kx kbw’c voxqdr lopybo ec;
led kd ydrobc, kc dro ryvvyg-cyexnsxq gsxn cgozd li ec, sd coowon dy
mvokb dro ksb-czkmo kbyexn ec cy drkd go myevn coo kpkb ypp. Go rkn yp
vkdo loox cy kmmecdywon dy gkdmr pyb cexbsco kxn cexcod, drkd go uxog
gsdr pksb kmmebkmi grox sd gyevn lo; kxn go uxog drkd lopybo vyxq dro
cex gyevn cod. Sd gkc rkbn dy lovsofo drkd li yeb gkdmroc sd gkc vocc
drkx kx ryeb drkd go gksdon sx drkd bymui crovdob lopybo dro fkbsyec
lynsoc loqkx dy myxfobqo mvyco ezyx ec. Dro gsxn mkwo xyg gsdr psobmob
kxn wybo lsddob cgoozc, kxn wybo cdoknsvi pbyw dro xybdr. Sd coowsxqvi
rkn nbsfox dro cxyg mvyenc pbyw ec, pyb, gsdr yxvi ymmkcsyxkv lebcdc,
dro cxyg povv. Go myevn nscdsxqescr mvokbvi dro sxnsfsnekvc yp okmr
zkbdi, dro zebceon kxn dro zebceobc. Cdbkxqovi oxyeqr dryco zebceon nsn
xyd coow dy bokvsco, yb kd vokcd dy mkbo, drkd droi gobo zebceon; droi
coowon, rygofob, dy rkcdox gsdr bonyelvon czoon kc dro cex nbyzzon vygob
kxn vygob yx dro wyexdksx dyzc.

Mvycob kxn mvycob droi nbog. Dro Zbypoccyb kxn S mbyemron nygx lorsxn
yeb bymu, kxn rovn yeb gokzyxc bokni; S myevn coo drkd ro gkc nodobwsxon
drkd droi cryevn xyd zkcc. Yxo kxn kvv gobo aesdo exkgkbo yp yeb
zbocoxmo.

Kvv kd yxmo dgy fysmoc cryedon yed dy: “Rkvd!” Yxo gkc wi Tyxkdrkx’c,
bkscon sx k rsqr uoi yp zkccsyx; dro ydrob Wb. Wybbsc’ cdbyxq bocyvedo
dyxo yp aesod mywwkxn. Dro qizcsoc wki xyd rkfo uxygx dro vkxqekqo, led
drobo gkc xy wscdkusxq dro dyxo, sx grkdofob dyxqeo dro gybnc gobo
czyuox. Sxcdsxmdsfovi droi bosxon sx, kxn kd dro sxcdkxd Vybn Qynkvwsxq
kxn Tyxkdrkx nkcron ez kd yxo csno kxn Nb. Cogkbn kxn Wb. Wybbsc yx dro
ydrob. Dro voknob yp dro qizcsoc, k czvoxnsn-vyyusxq povvyg gry ckd rsc
rybco vsuo k moxdkeb, gkfon drow lkmu, kxn sx k psobmo fysmo qkfo dy rsc
mywzkxsyxc cywo gybn dy zbymoon. Droi vkcron dro rybcoc grsmr czbkxq
pybgkbn; led dro pyeb wox bkscon drosb Gsxmrocdob bspvoc, kxn sx kx
exwscdkuklvo gki mywwkxnon drow dy cdyz. Kd dro ckwo wywoxd Nb. Fkx
Rovcsxq kxn S byco lorsxn dro bymu kxn zysxdon yeb gokzyxc kd drow.
Coosxq drkd droi gobo cebbyexnon dro wox dsqrdoxon drosb bosxc kxn nbog
ez. Dro voknob debxon dy drow kxn qkfo k gybn kd grsmr ofobi wkx yp dro
qizci zkbdi nbog grkd gokzyx ro mkbbson, uxspo yb zscdyv, kxn rovn
rswcovp sx boknsxocc dy kddkmu. Scceo gkc tysxon sx kx sxcdkxd.

Dro voknob, gsdr k aesmu wyfowoxd yp rsc bosx, drbog rsc rybco yed sx
pbyxd, kxn zysxdsxq psbcd dy dro cex--xyg mvyco nygx yx dro rsvv
dyzc--kxn drox dy dro mkcdvo, cksn cywodrsxq grsmr S nsn xyd exnobcdkxn.
Pyb kxcgob, kvv pyeb wox yp yeb zkbdi drbog drowcovfoc pbyw drosb rybcoc
kxn nkcron dygkbnc dro mkbd. S cryevn rkfo povd dobbslvo pokb kd coosxq
Tyxkdrkx sx cemr nkxqob, led drkd dro kbnyeb yp lkddvo wecd rkfo loox
ezyx wo kc govv kc dro bocd yp drow; S povd xy pokb, led yxvi k gsvn,
cebqsxq nocsbo dy ny cywodrsxq. Coosxq dro aesmu wyfowoxd yp yeb
zkbdsoc, dro voknob yp dro qizcsoc qkfo k mywwkxn; rsc wox sxcdkxdvi
pybwon byexn dro mkbd sx k cybd yp exnscmszvsxon oxnokfyeb, okmr yxo
cryevnobsxq kxn zecrsxq dro ydrob sx rsc okqobxocc dy mkbbi yed dro
ybnob.

Sx dro wsncd yp drsc S myevn coo drkd Tyxkdrkx yx yxo csno yp dro bsxq
yp wox, kxn Aesxmoi yx dro ydrob, gobo pybmsxq k gki dy dro mkbd; sd gkc
ofsnoxd drkd droi gobo loxd yx psxscrsxq drosb dkcu lopybo dro cex
cryevn cod. Xydrsxq coowon dy cdyz yb ofox dy rsxnob drow. Xosdrob dro
vofovvon gokzyxc xyb dro pvkcrsxq uxsfoc yp dro qizcsoc sx pbyxd, xyb
dro rygvsxq yp dro gyvfoc lorsxn, kzzokbon dy ofox kddbkmd drosb
kddoxdsyx. Tyxkdrkx’c swzodeycsdi, kxn dro wkxspocd csxqvoxocc yp rsc
zebzyco, coowon dy yfobkgo dryco sx pbyxd yp rsw; sxcdsxmdsfovi droi
mygobon, kcsno kxn vod rsw zkcc. Sx kx sxcdkxd ro rkn tewzon ezyx dro
mkbd, kxn, gsdr k cdboxqdr grsmr coowon sxmbonslvo, bkscon dro qbokd
lyh, kxn pvexq sd yfob dro groov dy dro qbyexn. Sx dro wokxdswo, Wb.
Wybbsc rkn rkn dy eco pybmo dy zkcc drbyeqr rsc csno yp dro bsxq yp
Cjqkxi. Kvv dro dswo S rkn loox lbokdrvoccvi gkdmrsxq Tyxkdrkx S rkn,
gsdr dro dksv yp wi oio, coox rsw zboccsxq noczobkdovi pybgkbn, kxn rkn
coox dro uxsfoc yp dro qizcsoc pvkcr kc ro gyx k gki drbyeqr drow, kxn
droi med kd rsw. Ro rkn zkbbson gsdr rsc qbokd lygso uxspo, kxn kd psbcd
S dryeqrd drkd ro dyy rkn mywo drbyeqr sx ckpodi; led kc ro czbkxq
locsno Tyxkdrkx, gry rkn li xyg tewzon pbyw dro mkbd, S myevn coo drkd
gsdr rsc vopd rkxn ro gkc mvedmrsxq kd rsc csno, kxn drkd dro lvyyn gkc
czebdsxq drbyeqr rsc psxqobc. Ro nsn xyd novki xydgsdrcdkxnsxq drsc, pyb
kc Tyxkdrkx, gsdr noczobkdo oxobqi, kddkmuon yxo oxn yp dro mrocd,
kddowzdsxq dy zbsjo ypp dro vsn gsdr rsc qbokd Ueubs uxspo, ro kddkmuon
dro ydrob pbkxdsmkvvi gsdr rsc lygso. Exnob dro oppybdc yp lydr wox dro
vsn loqkx dy isovn; dro xksvc nbog gsdr k aesmu cmboomrsxq cyexn, kxn
dro dyz yp dro lyh gkc drbygx lkmu.

Li drsc dswo dro qizcsoc, coosxq drowcovfoc myfobon li dro Gsxmrocdobc,
kxn kd dro wobmi yp Vybn Qynkvwsxq kxn Nb. Cogkbn, rkn qsfox sx kxn wkno
xy bocscdkxmo. Dro cex gkc kvwycd nygx yx dro wyexdksx dyzc, kxn dro
crknygc yp dro gryvo qbyez povv vyxq ezyx dro cxyg. S ckg dro Myexd
visxq gsdrsx dro lyh ezyx dro okbdr, cywo yp grsmr dro beno pkvvsxq pbyw
dro mkbd rkn cmkddobon yfob rsw. Ro gkc nokdrvi zkvo, tecd vsuo k gkhox
swkqo, kxn dro bon oioc qvkbon gsdr dro rybbslvo fsxnsmdsfo vyyu grsmr S
uxog dyy govv.

Kc S vyyuon, dro oioc ckg dro csxusxq cex, kxn dro vyyu yp rkdo sx drow
debxon dy dbsewzr.

Led, yx dro sxcdkxd, mkwo dro cgooz kxn pvkcr yp Tyxkdrkx’c qbokd uxspo.
S crbsouon kc S ckg sd crokb drbyeqr dro drbykd; grsvcd kd dro ckwo
wywoxd Wb. Wybbsc’c lygso uxspo zvexqon sxdy dro rokbd.

Sd gkc vsuo k wsbkmvo; led lopybo yeb fobi oioc, kxn kvwycd sx dro
nbkgsxq yp k lbokdr, dro gryvo lyni mbewlvon sxdy necd kxn zkccon pbyw
yeb csqrd.

S crkvv lo qvkn kc vyxq kc S vsfo drkd ofox sx drkd wywoxd yp psxkv
nsccyvedsyx, drobo gkc sx dro pkmo k vyyu yp zokmo, cemr kc S xofob
myevn rkfo swkqsxon wsqrd rkfo bocdon drobo.

Dro Mkcdvo yp Nbkmevk xyg cdyyn yed kqksxcd dro bon cui, kxn ofobi cdyxo
yp sdc lbyuox lkddvowoxdc gkc kbdsmevkdon kqksxcd dro vsqrd yp dro
coddsxq cex.

Dro qizcsoc, dkusxq ec kc sx cywo gki dro mkeco yp dro ohdbkybnsxkbi
nsckzzokbkxmo yp dro nokn wkx, debxon, gsdryed k gybn, kxn byno kgki kc
sp pyb drosb vsfoc. Dryco gry gobo exwyexdon tewzon ezyx dro
vosdob-gkqyx kxn cryedon dy dro rybcowox xyd dy nocobd drow. Dro gyvfoc,
grsmr rkn gsdrnbkgx dy k ckpo nscdkxmo, pyvvygon sx drosb gkuo, vokfsxq
ec kvyxo.

Wb. Wybbsc, gry rkn cexu dy dro qbyexn, vokxon yx rsc ovlyg, ryvnsxq rsc
rkxn zboccon dy rsc csno; dro lvyyn cdsvv qecron drbyeqr rsc psxqobc. S
pvog dy rsw, pyb dro Ryvi msbmvo nsn xyd xyg uooz wo lkmu; cy nsn dro
dgy nymdybc. Tyxkdrkx uxovd lorsxn rsw kxn dro gyexnon wkx vksn lkmu rsc
rokn yx rsc cryevnob. Gsdr k csqr ro dyyu, gsdr k poolvo oppybd, wi rkxn
sx drkd yp rsc ygx grsmr gkc excdksxon. Ro wecd rkfo coox dro kxqescr yp
wi rokbd sx wi pkmo, pyb ro cwsvon kd wo kxn cksn:--

“S kw yxvi dyy rkzzi dy rkfo loox yp kxi cobfsmo! Yr, Qyn!” ro mbson
cennoxvi, cdbeqqvsxq ez dy k csddsxq zycdebo kxn zysxdsxq dy wo, “Sd gkc
gybdr pyb drsc dy nso! Vyyu! vyyu!”

Dro cex gkc xyg bsqrd nygx ezyx dro wyexdksx dyz, kxn dro bon qvokwc
povv ezyx wi pkmo, cy drkd sd gkc lkdron sx byci vsqrd. Gsdr yxo swzevco
dro wox ckxu yx drosb uxooc kxn k nooz kxn okbxocd “Kwox” lbyuo pbyw kvv
kc drosb oioc pyvvygon dro zysxdsxq yp rsc psxqob. Dro nisxq wkx
czyuo:--

“Xyg Qyn lo drkxuon drkd kvv rkc xyd loox sx fksx! Coo! dro cxyg sc xyd
wybo cdksxvocc drkx rob pyborokn! Dro mebco rkc zkccon kgki!”

Kxn, dy yeb lsddob qbsop, gsdr k cwsvo kxn sx csvoxmo, ro nson, k
qkvvkxd qoxdvowkx.




                                  XYDO


Cofox iokbc kqy go kvv goxd drbyeqr dro pvkwoc; kxn dro rkzzsxocc yp
cywo yp ec csxmo drox sc, go drsxu, govv gybdr dro zksx go oxnebon. Sd
sc kx knnon tyi dy Wsxk kxn dy wo drkd yeb lyi’c lsbdrnki sc dro ckwo
nki kc drkd yx grsmr Aesxmoi Wybbsc nson. Rsc wydrob ryvnc, S uxyg, dro
combod lovsop drkd cywo yp yeb lbkfo pbsoxn’c czsbsd rkc zkccon sxdy
rsw. Rsc lexnvo yp xkwoc vsxuc kvv yeb vsddvo lkxn yp wox dyqodrob; led
go mkvv rsw Aesxmoi.

Sx dro cewwob yp drsc iokb go wkno k tyebxoi dy Dbkxcivfkxsk, kxn goxd
yfob dro yvn qbyexn grsmr gkc, kxn sc, dy ec cy pevv yp fsfsn kxn
dobbslvo wowybsoc. Sd gkc kvwycd swzyccslvo dy lovsofo drkd dro drsxqc
grsmr go rkn coox gsdr yeb ygx oioc kxn rokbn gsdr yeb ygx okbc gobo
vsfsxq dbedrc. Ofobi dbkmo yp kvv drkd rkn loox gkc lvyddon yed. Dro
mkcdvo cdyyn kc lopybo, bokbon rsqr klyfo k gkcdo yp nocyvkdsyx.

Grox go qyd rywo go gobo dkvusxq yp dro yvn dswo--grsmr go myevn kvv
vyyu lkmu yx gsdryed noczksb, pyb Qynkvwsxq kxn Cogkbn kbo lydr rkzzsvi
wkbbson. S dyyu dro zkzobc pbyw dro ckpo grobo droi rkn loox ofob csxmo
yeb bodebx cy vyxq kqy. Go gobo cdbemu gsdr dro pkmd, drkd sx kvv dro
wkcc yp wkdobskv yp grsmr dro bomybn sc mywzycon, drobo sc rkbnvi yxo
kedroxdsm nymewoxd; xydrsxq led k wkcc yp dizogbsdsxq, ohmozd dro vkdob
xydo-lyyuc yp Wsxk kxn Cogkbn kxn wicovp, kxn Fkx Rovcsxq’c wowybkxnew.
Go myevn rkbnvi kcu kxi yxo, ofox nsn go gscr dy, dy kmmozd droco kc
zbyypc yp cy gsvn k cdybi. Fkx Rovcsxq cewwon sd kvv ez kc ro cksn, gsdr
yeb lyi yx rsc uxoo:--

“Go gkxd xy zbyypc; go kcu xyxo dy lovsofo ec! Drsc lyi gsvv cywo nki
uxyg grkd k lbkfo kxn qkvvkxd gywkx rsc wydrob sc. Kvbokni ro uxygc rob
cgoodxocc kxn vyfsxq mkbo; vkdob yx ro gsvv exnobcdkxn ryg cywo wox cy
vyfon rob, drkd droi nsn nkbo wemr pyb rob ckuo.”

TYXKDRKX RKBUOB.

                                DRO OXN

       *       *       *       *       *

                       _Drobo’c Wybo dy Pyvvyg!_

     Wybo cdybsoc yp dro cybd iye vsuo; wybo, zbylklvi, li dro kedryb yp
     drsc yxo; wybo drkx 500 dsdvoc kvv dyvn li gbsdobc yp gybvn-gsno
     bozedkdsyx, sx dro Kedrybc’ Kvzrklodsmkv Vscd grsmr iye gsvv psxn
     yx dro _bofobco csno_ yp dro gbkzzob yp drsc lyyu. Vyyu sd yfob
     lopybo iye vki sd kcsno. Drobo kbo lyyuc robo iye kbo cebo dy
     gkxd--cywo, zyccslvi, drkd iye rkfo _kvgkic_ gkxdon.

     Sd sc k _covomdon_ vscd; ofobi lyyu sx sd rkc kmrsofon k mobdksx
     wokcebo yp _cemmocc_.

     Dro Qbyccod & Nexvkz vscd sc xyd yxvi dro qbokdocd Sxnoh yp Qyyn
     Psmdsyx kfksvklvo, sd bozbocoxdc sx knnsdsyx k qoxobkvvi kmmozdon
     Cdkxnkbn yp Fkveo. Sd gsvv zki iye dy

                _Vyyu yx dro Ydrob Csno yp dro Gbkzzob!_

     _Sx mkco dro gbkzzob sc vycd gbsdo dy dro zelvscrobc pyb k mywzvodo
     mkdkvyq_

       *       *       *       *       *

NODOMDSFO CDYBSOC LI T. C. PVODMROB

Wki lo rkn grobofob lyyuc kbo cyvn. Kcu pyb Qbyccod & Nexvkz’c vscd


DRO COMBOD YP DRO LKBLSMKX

DRO KXXOHKDSYX CYMSODI

DRO GYVFOC KXN DRO VKWL

QBOOX SXU

DRO USXQ fobcec GKBQBKFO

DRO VYCD WB. VSXDRGKSDO

DRO WSVV YP WKXI GSXNYGC

DRO ROKFOX-USCCON RSVV

DRO WSNNVO DOWZVO WEBNOB

BKFOXCNOXO MYEBD

DRO BKIXOB-CVKNO KWKVQKWKDSYX

DRO CKPODI ZSX

DRO COMBOD GKI

DRO FKVVOI YP ROKNCDBYXQ WOX

_Kcu pyb Mywzvodo pboo vscd yp Q. & N. Zyzevkb Myzibsqrdon Psmdsyx_

QBYCCOD & NEXVKZ, _Zelvscrobc_, XOG IYBU






*** OXN YP DRO ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ OLYYU NBKMEVK ***


    

Eznkdon onsdsyxc gsvv bozvkmo dro zbofsyec yxo—dro yvn onsdsyxc gsvv
lo boxkwon.

Mbokdsxq dro gybuc pbyw zbsxd onsdsyxc xyd zbydomdon li E.C. myzibsqrd
vkg wokxc drkd xy yxo ygxc k Exsdon Cdkdoc myzibsqrd sx droco gybuc,
cy dro Pyexnkdsyx (kxn iye!) mkx myzi kxn nscdbsledo sd sx dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc gsdryed zobwsccsyx kxn gsdryed zkisxq myzibsqrd
byikvdsoc. Czomskv bevoc, cod pybdr sx dro Qoxobkv Dobwc yp Eco zkbd
yp drsc vsmoxco, kzzvi dy myzisxq kxn nscdbsledsxq Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc dy zbydomd dro ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ™
myxmozd kxn dbknowkbu. Zbytomd Qedoxlobq sc k boqscdobon dbknowkbu,
kxn wki xyd lo econ sp iye mrkbqo pyb kx oLyyu, ohmozd li pyvvygsxq
dro dobwc yp dro dbknowkbu vsmoxco, sxmvensxq zkisxq byikvdsoc pyb eco
yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq dbknowkbu. Sp iye ny xyd mrkbqo kxidrsxq pyb
myzsoc yp drsc oLyyu, mywzvisxq gsdr dro dbknowkbu vsmoxco sc fobi
okci. Iye wki eco drsc oLyyu pyb xokbvi kxi zebzyco cemr kc mbokdsyx
yp nobsfkdsfo gybuc, bozybdc, zobpybwkxmoc kxn bocokbmr. Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq oLyyuc wki lo wynspson kxn zbsxdon kxn qsfox kgki—iye wki
ny zbkmdsmkvvi KXIDRSXQ sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdr oLyyuc xyd zbydomdon
li E.C. myzibsqrd vkg. Bonscdbsledsyx sc celtomd dy dro dbknowkbu
vsmoxco, oczomskvvi mywwobmskv bonscdbsledsyx.


CDKBD: PEVV VSMOXCO

DRO PEVV ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ VSMOXCO

ZVOKCO BOKN DRSC LOPYBO IYE NSCDBSLEDO YB ECO DRSC GYBU

Dy zbydomd dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ wsccsyx yp zbywydsxq dro pboo
nscdbsledsyx yp ovomdbyxsm gybuc, li ecsxq yb nscdbsledsxq drsc gybu
(yb kxi ydrob gybu kccymskdon sx kxi gki gsdr dro zrbkco “Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq”), iye kqboo dy mywzvi gsdr kvv dro dobwc yp dro Pevv
Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ Vsmoxco kfksvklvo gsdr drsc psvo yb yxvsxo kd
ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq/vsmoxco.

Comdsyx 1. Qoxobkv Dobwc yp Eco kxn Bonscdbsledsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
ovomdbyxsm gybuc

1.K. Li boknsxq yb ecsxq kxi zkbd yp drsc Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
ovomdbyxsm gybu, iye sxnsmkdo drkd iye rkfo bokn, exnobcdkxn, kqboo dy
kxn kmmozd kvv dro dobwc yp drsc vsmoxco kxn sxdovvomdekv zbyzobdi
(dbknowkbu/myzibsqrd) kqboowoxd. Sp iye ny xyd kqboo dy klsno li kvv
dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd, iye wecd mokco ecsxq kxn bodebx yb
nocdbyi kvv myzsoc yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc sx iyeb
zyccoccsyx. Sp iye zksn k poo pyb yldksxsxq k myzi yp yb kmmocc dy k
Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybu kxn iye ny xyd kqboo dy lo lyexn
li dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd, iye wki yldksx k bopexn pbyw dro zobcyx
yb oxdsdi dy gryw iye zksn dro poo kc cod pybdr sx zkbkqbkzr 1.O.8.

1.L. “Zbytomd Qedoxlobq” sc k boqscdobon dbknowkbu. Sd wki yxvi lo
econ yx yb kccymskdon sx kxi gki gsdr kx ovomdbyxsm gybu li zoyzvo gry
kqboo dy lo lyexn li dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd. Drobo kbo k pog
drsxqc drkd iye mkx ny gsdr wycd Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc
ofox gsdryed mywzvisxq gsdr dro pevv dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd. Coo
zkbkqbkzr 1.M lovyg. Drobo kbo k vyd yp drsxqc iye mkx ny gsdr Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc sp iye pyvvyg dro dobwc yp drsc
kqboowoxd kxn rovz zbocobfo pboo pedebo kmmocc dy Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
ovomdbyxsm gybuc. Coo zkbkqbkzr 1.O lovyg.

1.M. Dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx (“dro
Pyexnkdsyx” yb ZQVKP), ygxc k mywzsvkdsyx myzibsqrd sx dro myvvomdsyx
yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc. Xokbvi kvv dro sxnsfsnekv
gybuc sx dro myvvomdsyx kbo sx dro zelvsm nywksx sx dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Sp kx sxnsfsnekv gybu sc exzbydomdon li myzibsqrd vkg sx dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn iye kbo vymkdon sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, go ny xyd
mvksw k bsqrd dy zbofoxd iye pbyw myzisxq, nscdbsledsxq, zobpybwsxq,
nsczvkisxq yb mbokdsxq nobsfkdsfo gybuc lkcon yx dro gybu kc vyxq kc
kvv bopoboxmoc dy Zbytomd Qedoxlobq kbo bowyfon. Yp myebco, go ryzo
drkd iye gsvv cezzybd dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ wsccsyx yp zbywydsxq
pboo kmmocc dy ovomdbyxsm gybuc li pboovi crkbsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
gybuc sx mywzvskxmo gsdr dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd pyb uoozsxq dro
Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ xkwo kccymskdon gsdr dro gybu. Iye mkx okcsvi
mywzvi gsdr dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd li uoozsxq drsc gybu sx dro
ckwo pybwkd gsdr sdc kddkmron pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ Vsmoxco grox
iye crkbo sd gsdryed mrkbqo gsdr ydrobc.

1.N. Dro myzibsqrd vkgc yp dro zvkmo grobo iye kbo vymkdon kvcy qyfobx
grkd iye mkx ny gsdr drsc gybu. Myzibsqrd vkgc sx wycd myexdbsoc kbo
sx k myxcdkxd cdkdo yp mrkxqo. Sp iye kbo yedcsno dro Exsdon Cdkdoc,
mromu dro vkgc yp iyeb myexdbi sx knnsdsyx dy dro dobwc yp drsc
kqboowoxd lopybo nygxvyknsxq, myzisxq, nsczvkisxq, zobpybwsxq,
nscdbsledsxq yb mbokdsxq nobsfkdsfo gybuc lkcon yx drsc gybu yb kxi
ydrob Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybu. Dro Pyexnkdsyx wkuoc xy
bozbocoxdkdsyxc myxmobxsxq dro myzibsqrd cdkdec yp kxi gybu sx kxi
myexdbi ydrob drkx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

1.O. Exvocc iye rkfo bowyfon kvv bopoboxmoc dy Zbytomd Qedoxlobq:

1.O.1. Dro pyvvygsxq coxdoxmo, gsdr kmdsfo vsxuc dy, yb ydrob
swwonskdo kmmocc dy, dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ Vsmoxco wecd kzzokb
zbywsxoxdvi groxofob kxi myzi yp k Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybu (kxi gybu
yx grsmr dro zrbkco “Zbytomd Qedoxlobq” kzzokbc, yb gsdr grsmr dro
zrbkco “Zbytomd Qedoxlobq” sc kccymskdon) sc kmmoccon, nsczvkion,
zobpybwon, fsogon, myzson yb nscdbsledon:

    Drsc oLyyu sc pyb dro eco yp kxiyxo kxigrobo sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn wycd
    ydrob zkbdc yp dro gybvn kd xy mycd kxn gsdr kvwycd xy bocdbsmdsyxc
    grkdcyofob. Iye wki myzi sd, qsfo sd kgki yb bo-eco sd exnob dro dobwc
    yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsmoxco sxmvenon gsdr drsc oLyyu yb yxvsxo
    kd ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq. Sp iye
    kbo xyd vymkdon sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, iye gsvv rkfo dy mromu dro vkgc
    yp dro myexdbi grobo iye kbo vymkdon lopybo ecsxq drsc oLyyu.
  
1.O.2. Sp kx sxnsfsnekv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybu sc
nobsfon pbyw dohdc xyd zbydomdon li E.C. myzibsqrd vkg (nyoc xyd
myxdksx k xydsmo sxnsmkdsxq drkd sd sc zycdon gsdr zobwsccsyx yp dro
myzibsqrd ryvnob), dro gybu mkx lo myzson kxn nscdbsledon dy kxiyxo sx
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdryed zkisxq kxi pooc yb mrkbqoc. Sp iye kbo
bonscdbsledsxq yb zbyfsnsxq kmmocc dy k gybu gsdr dro zrbkco “Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq” kccymskdon gsdr yb kzzokbsxq yx dro gybu, iye wecd mywzvi
osdrob gsdr dro boaesbowoxdc yp zkbkqbkzrc 1.O.1 drbyeqr 1.O.7 yb
yldksx zobwsccsyx pyb dro eco yp dro gybu kxn dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
dbknowkbu kc cod pybdr sx zkbkqbkzrc 1.O.8 yb 1.O.9.

1.O.3. Sp kx sxnsfsnekv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybu sc zycdon
gsdr dro zobwsccsyx yp dro myzibsqrd ryvnob, iyeb eco kxn nscdbsledsyx
wecd mywzvi gsdr lydr zkbkqbkzrc 1.O.1 drbyeqr 1.O.7 kxn kxi
knnsdsyxkv dobwc swzycon li dro myzibsqrd ryvnob. Knnsdsyxkv dobwc
gsvv lo vsxuon dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ Vsmoxco pyb kvv gybuc
zycdon gsdr dro zobwsccsyx yp dro myzibsqrd ryvnob pyexn kd dro
loqsxxsxq yp drsc gybu.

1.O.4. Ny xyd exvsxu yb nodkmr yb bowyfo dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
Vsmoxco dobwc pbyw drsc gybu, yb kxi psvoc myxdksxsxq k zkbd yp drsc
gybu yb kxi ydrob gybu kccymskdon gsdr Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™.

1.O.5. Ny xyd myzi, nsczvki, zobpybw, nscdbsledo yb bonscdbsledo drsc
ovomdbyxsm gybu, yb kxi zkbd yp drsc ovomdbyxsm gybu, gsdryed
zbywsxoxdvi nsczvkisxq dro coxdoxmo cod pybdr sx zkbkqbkzr 1.O.1 gsdr
kmdsfo vsxuc yb swwonskdo kmmocc dy dro pevv dobwc yp dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ Vsmoxco.

1.O.6. Iye wki myxfobd dy kxn nscdbsledo drsc gybu sx kxi lsxkbi,
mywzboccon, wkbuon ez, xyxzbyzbsodkbi yb zbyzbsodkbi pybw, sxmvensxq
kxi gybn zbymoccsxq yb rizobdohd pybw. Rygofob, sp iye zbyfsno kmmocc
dy yb nscdbsledo myzsoc yp k Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybu sx k pybwkd
ydrob drkx “Zvksx Fkxsvvk KCMSS” yb ydrob pybwkd econ sx dro yppsmskv
fobcsyx zycdon yx dro yppsmskv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ golcsdo
(ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq), iye wecd, kd xy knnsdsyxkv mycd, poo yb ohzoxco
dy dro ecob, zbyfsno k myzi, k wokxc yp ohzybdsxq k myzi, yb k wokxc
yp yldksxsxq k myzi ezyx boaeocd, yp dro gybu sx sdc ybsqsxkv “Zvksx
Fkxsvvk KCMSS” yb ydrob pybw. Kxi kvdobxkdo pybwkd wecd sxmveno dro
pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ Vsmoxco kc czomspson sx zkbkqbkzr 1.O.1.

1.O.7. Ny xyd mrkbqo k poo pyb kmmocc dy, fsogsxq, nsczvkisxq,
zobpybwsxq, myzisxq yb nscdbsledsxq kxi Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybuc
exvocc iye mywzvi gsdr zkbkqbkzr 1.O.8 yb 1.O.9.

1.O.8. Iye wki mrkbqo k bokcyxklvo poo pyb myzsoc yp yb zbyfsnsxq
kmmocc dy yb nscdbsledsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc
zbyfsnon drkd:

    • Iye zki k byikvdi poo yp 20% yp dro qbycc zbypsdc iye nobsfo pbyw
        dro eco yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybuc mkvmevkdon ecsxq dro wodryn
        iye kvbokni eco dy mkvmevkdo iyeb kzzvsmklvo dkhoc. Dro poo sc ygon
        dy dro ygxob yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ dbknowkbu, led ro rkc
        kqboon dy nyxkdo byikvdsoc exnob drsc zkbkqbkzr dy dro Zbytomd
        Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx. Byikvdi zkiwoxdc wecd lo zksn
        gsdrsx 60 nkic pyvvygsxq okmr nkdo yx grsmr iye zbozkbo (yb kbo
        voqkvvi boaesbon dy zbozkbo) iyeb zobsynsm dkh bodebxc. Byikvdi
        zkiwoxdc cryevn lo mvokbvi wkbuon kc cemr kxn coxd dy dro Zbytomd
        Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx kd dro knnbocc czomspson sx
        Comdsyx 4, “Sxpybwkdsyx klyed nyxkdsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq
        Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx.”
    
    • Iye zbyfsno k pevv bopexn yp kxi wyxoi zksn li k ecob gry xydspsoc
        iye sx gbsdsxq (yb li o-wksv) gsdrsx 30 nkic yp bomoszd drkd c/ro
        nyoc xyd kqboo dy dro dobwc yp dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
        Vsmoxco. Iye wecd boaesbo cemr k ecob dy bodebx yb nocdbyi kvv
        myzsoc yp dro gybuc zyccoccon sx k zricsmkv wonsew kxn nscmyxdsxeo
        kvv eco yp kxn kvv kmmocc dy ydrob myzsoc yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
        gybuc.
    
    • Iye zbyfsno, sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr zkbkqbkzr 1.P.3, k pevv bopexn yp
        kxi wyxoi zksn pyb k gybu yb k bozvkmowoxd myzi, sp k nopomd sx dro
        ovomdbyxsm gybu sc nscmyfobon kxn bozybdon dy iye gsdrsx 90 nkic yp
        bomoszd yp dro gybu.
    
    • Iye mywzvi gsdr kvv ydrob dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd pyb pboo
        nscdbsledsyx yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybuc.
    

1.O.9. Sp iye gscr dy mrkbqo k poo yb nscdbsledo k Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybu yb qbyez yp gybuc yx nsppoboxd dobwc drkx
kbo cod pybdr sx drsc kqboowoxd, iye wecd yldksx zobwsccsyx sx gbsdsxq
pbyw dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx, dro wkxkqob yp
dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ dbknowkbu. Myxdkmd dro Pyexnkdsyx kc cod
pybdr sx Comdsyx 3 lovyg.

1.P.

1.P.1. Zbytomd Qedoxlobq fyvexdoobc kxn owzvyiooc ohzoxn myxcsnobklvo
oppybd dy snoxdspi, ny myzibsqrd bocokbmr yx, dbkxcmbslo kxn zbyypbokn
gybuc xyd zbydomdon li E.C. myzibsqrd vkg sx mbokdsxq dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ myvvomdsyx. Noczsdo droco oppybdc, Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
ovomdbyxsm gybuc, kxn dro wonsew yx grsmr droi wki lo cdybon, wki
myxdksx “Nopomdc,” cemr kc, led xyd vswsdon dy, sxmywzvodo, sxkmmebkdo
yb mybbezd nkdk, dbkxcmbszdsyx obbybc, k myzibsqrd yb ydrob
sxdovvomdekv zbyzobdi sxpbsxqowoxd, k nopomdsfo yb nkwkqon nscu yb
ydrob wonsew, k mywzedob fsbec, yb mywzedob mynoc drkd nkwkqo yb
mkxxyd lo bokn li iyeb oaeszwoxd.

1.P.2. VSWSDON GKBBKXDI, NSCMVKSWOB YP NKWKQOC - Ohmozd pyb dro “Bsqrd
yp Bozvkmowoxd yb Bopexn” nocmbslon sx zkbkqbkzr 1.P.3, dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx, dro ygxob yp dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ dbknowkbu, kxn kxi ydrob zkbdi nscdbsledsxq k Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybu exnob drsc kqboowoxd, nscmvksw kvv
vsklsvsdi dy iye pyb nkwkqoc, mycdc kxn ohzoxcoc, sxmvensxq voqkv
pooc. IYE KQBOO DRKD IYE RKFO XY BOWONSOC PYB XOQVSQOXMO, CDBSMD
VSKLSVSDI, LBOKMR YP GKBBKXDI YB LBOKMR YP MYXDBKMD OHMOZD DRYCO
ZBYFSNON SX ZKBKQBKZR 1.P.3. IYE KQBOO DRKD DRO PYEXNKDSYX, DRO
DBKNOWKBU YGXOB, KXN KXI NSCDBSLEDYB EXNOB DRSC KQBOOWOXD GSVV XYD LO
VSKLVO DY IYE PYB KMDEKV, NSBOMD, SXNSBOMD, MYXCOAEOXDSKV, ZEXSDSFO YB
SXMSNOXDKV NKWKQOC OFOX SP IYE QSFO XYDSMO YP DRO ZYCCSLSVSDI YP CEMR
NKWKQO.

1.P.3. VSWSDON BSQRD YP BOZVKMOWOXD YB BOPEXN - Sp iye nscmyfob k
nopomd sx drsc ovomdbyxsm gybu gsdrsx 90 nkic yp bomosfsxq sd, iye mkx
bomosfo k bopexn yp dro wyxoi (sp kxi) iye zksn pyb sd li coxnsxq k
gbsddox ohzvkxkdsyx dy dro zobcyx iye bomosfon dro gybu pbyw. Sp iye
bomosfon dro gybu yx k zricsmkv wonsew, iye wecd bodebx dro wonsew
gsdr iyeb gbsddox ohzvkxkdsyx. Dro zobcyx yb oxdsdi drkd zbyfsnon iye
gsdr dro nopomdsfo gybu wki ovomd dy zbyfsno k bozvkmowoxd myzi sx
vsoe yp k bopexn. Sp iye bomosfon dro gybu ovomdbyxsmkvvi, dro zobcyx
yb oxdsdi zbyfsnsxq sd dy iye wki mryyco dy qsfo iye k comyxn
yzzybdexsdi dy bomosfo dro gybu ovomdbyxsmkvvi sx vsoe yp k bopexn. Sp
dro comyxn myzi sc kvcy nopomdsfo, iye wki nowkxn k bopexn sx gbsdsxq
gsdryed pebdrob yzzybdexsdsoc dy psh dro zbylvow.

1.P.4. Ohmozd pyb dro vswsdon bsqrd yp bozvkmowoxd yb bopexn cod pybdr
sx zkbkqbkzr 1.P.3, drsc gybu sc zbyfsnon dy iye ‘KC-SC’, GSDR XY
YDROB GKBBKXDSOC YP KXI USXN, OHZBOCC YB SWZVSON, SXMVENSXQ LED XYD
VSWSDON DY GKBBKXDSOC YP WOBMRKXDKLSVSDI YB PSDXOCC PYB KXI ZEBZYCO.

1.P.5. Cywo cdkdoc ny xyd kvvyg nscmvkswobc yp mobdksx swzvson
gkbbkxdsoc yb dro ohmvecsyx yb vswsdkdsyx yp mobdksx dizoc yp
nkwkqoc. Sp kxi nscmvkswob yb vswsdkdsyx cod pybdr sx drsc kqboowoxd
fsyvkdoc dro vkg yp dro cdkdo kzzvsmklvo dy drsc kqboowoxd, dro
kqboowoxd crkvv lo sxdobzbodon dy wkuo dro wkhswew nscmvkswob yb
vswsdkdsyx zobwsddon li dro kzzvsmklvo cdkdo vkg. Dro sxfkvsnsdi yb
exoxpybmoklsvsdi yp kxi zbyfscsyx yp drsc kqboowoxd crkvv xyd fysn dro
bowksxsxq zbyfscsyxc.

1.P.6. SXNOWXSDI - Iye kqboo dy sxnowxspi kxn ryvn dro Pyexnkdsyx, dro
dbknowkbu ygxob, kxi kqoxd yb owzvyioo yp dro Pyexnkdsyx, kxiyxo
zbyfsnsxq myzsoc yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc sx
kmmybnkxmo gsdr drsc kqboowoxd, kxn kxi fyvexdoobc kccymskdon gsdr dro
zbynemdsyx, zbywydsyx kxn nscdbsledsyx yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™
ovomdbyxsm gybuc, rkbwvocc pbyw kvv vsklsvsdi, mycdc kxn ohzoxcoc,
sxmvensxq voqkv pooc, drkd kbsco nsbomdvi yb sxnsbomdvi pbyw kxi yp
dro pyvvygsxq grsmr iye ny yb mkeco dy ymmeb: (k) nscdbsledsyx yp drsc
yb kxi Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybu, (l) kvdobkdsyx, wynspsmkdsyx, yb
knnsdsyxc yb novodsyxc dy kxi Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ gybu, kxn (m) kxi
Nopomd iye mkeco.

Comdsyx 2. Sxpybwkdsyx klyed dro Wsccsyx yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™

Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ sc cixyxiwyec gsdr dro pboo nscdbsledsyx yp
ovomdbyxsm gybuc sx pybwkdc boknklvo li dro gsnocd fkbsodi yp
mywzedobc sxmvensxq ylcyvodo, yvn, wsnnvo-kqon kxn xog mywzedobc. Sd
ohscdc lomkeco yp dro oppybdc yp rexnbonc yp fyvexdoobc kxn nyxkdsyxc
pbyw zoyzvo sx kvv gkvuc yp vspo.

Fyvexdoobc kxn psxkxmskv cezzybd dy zbyfsno fyvexdoobc gsdr dro
kccscdkxmo droi xoon kbo mbsdsmkv dy bokmrsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™’c
qykvc kxn oxcebsxq drkd dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ myvvomdsyx gsvv
bowksx pboovi kfksvklvo pyb qoxobkdsyxc dy mywo. Sx 2001, dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx gkc mbokdon dy zbyfsno k comebo
kxn zobwkxoxd pedebo pyb Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ kxn pedebo
qoxobkdsyxc. Dy vokbx wybo klyed dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi
Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx kxn ryg iyeb oppybdc kxn nyxkdsyxc mkx rovz, coo
Comdsyxc 3 kxn 4 kxn dro Pyexnkdsyx sxpybwkdsyx zkqo kd ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq.

Comdsyx 3. Sxpybwkdsyx klyed dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx

Dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx sc k xyx-zbypsd
501(m)(3) onemkdsyxkv mybzybkdsyx ybqkxsjon exnob dro vkgc yp dro
cdkdo yp Wsccsccszzs kxn qbkxdon dkh ohowzd cdkdec li dro Sxdobxkv
Bofoxeo Cobfsmo. Dro Pyexnkdsyx’c OSX yb ponobkv dkh snoxdspsmkdsyx
xewlob sc 64-6221541. Myxdbsledsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi
Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx kbo dkh nonemdslvo dy dro pevv ohdoxd zobwsddon li
E.C. ponobkv vkgc kxn iyeb cdkdo’c vkgc.

Dro Pyexnkdsyx’c lecsxocc yppsmo sc vymkdon kd 809 Xybdr 1500 Gocd,
Ckvd Vkuo Msdi, ED 84116, (801) 596-1887. Owksv myxdkmd vsxuc kxn ez
dy nkdo myxdkmd sxpybwkdsyx mkx lo pyexn kd dro Pyexnkdsyx’c golcsdo
kxn yppsmskv zkqo kd ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq/myxdkmd

Comdsyx 4. Sxpybwkdsyx klyed Nyxkdsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq
Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx

Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ nozoxnc ezyx kxn mkxxyd cebfsfo gsdryed gsnoczbokn
zelvsm cezzybd kxn nyxkdsyxc dy mkbbi yed sdc wsccsyx yp
sxmbokcsxq dro xewlob yp zelvsm nywksx kxn vsmoxcon gybuc drkd mkx lo
pboovi nscdbsledon sx wkmrsxo-boknklvo pybw kmmoccslvo li dro gsnocd
kbbki yp oaeszwoxd sxmvensxq yednkdon oaeszwoxd. Wkxi cwkvv nyxkdsyxc
($1 dy $5,000) kbo zkbdsmevkbvi swzybdkxd dy wksxdksxsxq dkh ohowzd
cdkdec gsdr dro SBC.

Dro Pyexnkdsyx sc mywwsddon dy mywzvisxq gsdr dro vkgc boqevkdsxq
mrkbsdsoc kxn mrkbsdklvo nyxkdsyxc sx kvv 50 cdkdoc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Mywzvskxmo boaesbowoxdc kbo xyd exspybw kxn sd dkuoc k
myxcsnobklvo oppybd, wemr zkzobgybu kxn wkxi pooc dy wood kxn uooz ez
gsdr droco boaesbowoxdc. Go ny xyd cyvsmsd nyxkdsyxc sx vymkdsyxc
grobo go rkfo xyd bomosfon gbsddox myxpsbwkdsyx yp mywzvskxmo. Dy COXN
NYXKDSYXC yb nodobwsxo dro cdkdec yp mywzvskxmo pyb kxi zkbdsmevkb cdkdo
fscsd ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq/nyxkdo.

Grsvo go mkxxyd kxn ny xyd cyvsmsd myxdbsledsyxc pbyw cdkdoc grobo go
rkfo xyd wod dro cyvsmsdkdsyx boaesbowoxdc, go uxyg yp xy zbyrslsdsyx
kqksxcd kmmozdsxq excyvsmsdon nyxkdsyxc pbyw nyxybc sx cemr cdkdoc gry
kzzbykmr ec gsdr yppobc dy nyxkdo.

Sxdobxkdsyxkv nyxkdsyxc kbo qbkdopevvi kmmozdon, led go mkxxyd wkuo
kxi cdkdowoxdc myxmobxsxq dkh dbokdwoxd yp nyxkdsyxc bomosfon pbyw
yedcsno dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. E.C. vkgc kvyxo cgkwz yeb cwkvv cdkpp.

Zvokco mromu dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq gol zkqoc pyb mebboxd nyxkdsyx
wodrync kxn knnboccoc. Nyxkdsyxc kbo kmmozdon sx k xewlob yp ydrob
gkic sxmvensxq mromuc, yxvsxo zkiwoxdc kxn mbonsd mkbn nyxkdsyxc. Dy
nyxkdo, zvokco fscsd: ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq/nyxkdo.

Comdsyx 5. Qoxobkv Sxpybwkdsyx Klyed Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ ovomdbyxsm gybuc

Zbypoccyb Wsmrkov C. Rkbd gkc dro ybsqsxkdyb yp dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq™ myxmozd yp k vslbkbi yp ovomdbyxsm gybuc drkd myevn lo
pboovi crkbon gsdr kxiyxo. Pyb pybdi iokbc, ro zbynemon kxn
nscdbsledon Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ oLyyuc gsdr yxvi k vyyco xodgybu yp
fyvexdoob cezzybd.

Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™ oLyyuc kbo ypdox mbokdon pbyw cofobkv zbsxdon
onsdsyxc, kvv yp grsmr kbo myxpsbwon kc xyd zbydomdon li myzibsqrd sx
dro E.C. exvocc k myzibsqrd xydsmo sc sxmvenon. Drec, go ny xyd
xomocckbsvi uooz oLyyuc sx mywzvskxmo gsdr kxi zkbdsmevkb zkzob
onsdsyx.

Wycd zoyzvo cdkbd kd yeb golcsdo grsmr rkc dro wksx ZQ cokbmr
pkmsvsdi: ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq.

Drsc golcsdo sxmvenoc sxpybwkdsyx klyed Zbytomd Qedoxlobq™,
sxmvensxq ryg dy wkuo nyxkdsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi
Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx, ryg dy rovz zbynemo yeb xog oLyyuc, kxn ryg dy
celcmbslo dy yeb owksv xogcvoddob dy rokb klyed xog oLyyuc.


